                                            OCC-MP: A Max-Pressure framework to prioritize transit and high
                                                                            occupancy vehicles

                                                                             Tanveer Ahmeda, Hao Liub,, Vikash V. Gayaha

                                         aDepartment of Civil and Environmental Engineering, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, United
                                                                                                                         States

                                                bDepartment of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, United States

arXiv:2406.19269v2 [eess.SY] 4 Aug 2024  Abstract

                                         Max-pressure (MP) is a decentralized adaptive traffic signal control approach that has been shown to maxi-
                                         mize throughput for private vehicles. However, MP-based signal control algorithms do not differentiate the
                                         movement of transit vehicles from private vehicles or between high and single-occupancy private vehicles.
                                         Prioritizing the movement of transit or other high occupancy vehicles (HOVs) is vital to reduce congestion
                                         and improve the reliability and efficiency of transit operations. This study proposes OCC-MP: a novel MP-
                                         based algorithm that considers both vehicle queues and passenger occupancies in computing the weights
                                         of movements. By weighing movements with higher passenger occupancies more heavily, transit and other
                                         HOVs are implicitly provided with priority, while accounting for any negative impacts of that priority on
                                         single occupancy vehicles. And, unlike rule-based transit signal priority (TSP) strategies, OCC-MP more
                                         naturally also accommodates conflicting transit routes at a signalized intersection and facilitates their move-
                                         ment, even in mixed traffic without dedicated lanes. Simulations on a grid network under varying demands
                                         and transit configurations demonstrate the effectiveness of OCC-MP at providing TSP while simultaneously
                                         reducing the negative impact imparted onto lower occupancy private vehicles. Furthermore, OCC-MP is
                                         shown to have a larger stable region for demand compared to rule-based TSP strategies integrated into the
                                         MP framework. The performance of OCC-MP is also shown to be robust to errors in passenger occupancy
                                         information from transit vehicles and can be applied when passenger occupancies of private vehicles are
                                         not available. Finally, OCC-MP can be applied in a partially connected vehicle (CV) environment when a
                                         subset of vehicles is able to provide information to the signal controller, outperforming baseline methods at
                                         low CV penetration rates.

                                         Keywords: Max Pressure algorithm; Adaptive traffic signal control; Transit signal priority;
                                         Microsimulation

                                         1. Introduction

                                             Adaptive Traffic Signal Control (ATSC) is an intelligent transportation system technology that aims
                                         to optimize traffic flow by dynamically adjusting signal timings based on real-time traffic patterns. Max
                                         Pressure (MP) is a decentralized ATSC framework that has gained popularity due to its effectiveness in im-
                                         proving vehicle throughput at intersections. Initially developed for packet transmission scheduling in wireless
                                         networks (Tassiulas and Ephremides, 1990), the MP concept was later extended to traffic signal control by
                                         (Varaiya, 2013). MP-based traffic signal control algorithms operate independently at each intersection and
                                         rely on local information from approach links upstream and downstream of the intersection. Unlike some
                                         other ATSC approaches, MP algorithms do not require knowledge of future traffic demands, making them

                                             Corresponding author
                                              Email addresses: tpa5285@psu.edu (Tanveer Ahmed), hfl5376@psu.edu (Hao Liu), gayah@engr.psu.edu (Vikash V.

                                         Gayah)

                                         Preprint submitted to Elsevier  August 6, 2024
more practical and applicable in real-world settings. MP control is based on distributing vehicles from longer
queues to shorter queues (Levin, 2023). Specifically, the control policy assigns the right of way to the phase
in a traffic signal that serves movements with higher level of congestion, toward downstream links that are
more uncongested in order to maximize throughput. The level of congestion can be measures using various
metrics such as the number of vehicles, average travel time or average delay along a link (Dixit et al., 2020;
Kouvelas et al., 2014; Le et al., 2015; Lioris et al., 2016; Liu and Gayah, 2022, 2023; Mercader et al., 2020;
Varaiya, 2013; Xiao et al., 2014). The most desirable property of the MP algorithm is maximum stability,
which refers to its ability to serve a feasible set of demands if those demands can be accommodated by
any other control strategy (Varaiya, 2013). The set of feasible demands is known more commonly as the
stable region. Modifications to the MP in literature have reported either maximum stability or stability
properties on a reduced stable region (Barman and Levin, 2023; Gregoire et al., 2014; Le et al., 2015; Levin
et al., 2020; Li and Jabari, 2019; Liu and Gayah, 2022; Pumir et al., 2015; Wu et al., 2018; Xiao et al.,
2014; Xu et al., 2022). While there have been several variations of the MP algorithm proposed since 2013,
most treat all vehicles in a similar manner and do not distinguish between low and high occupancy vehicles
(HOVs). However, prioritizing HOVs ­ particularly transit vehicles ­ is critical to reduce vehicular demand
and alleviate congestion.

    To that end, transit signal priority (TSP) aims to enhance the performance of public transportation
by granting priority to transit vehicles at traffic signals. Its primary objective is to alleviate delays caused
by traffic signals and improve the reliability, efficiency, and speed of public transportation services. TSP
techniques can generally be classified into three categories: "active", "passive", and "adaptive". Passive
TSP relies on pre-programmed signal timing plans to prioritize public transit vehicles at specific times
or on designated routes, without direct communication between the transit vehicle and traffic signals. It
is effective for fixed-route bus lines with predictable schedules (Lin et al., 2019; Stephanedes and Filippi,
1996). In contrast, active TSP involves real-time communication between transit vehicles and traffic signals,
allowing for dynamic adjustments to signal timing based on the vehicle's needs. Active TSP requires a two-
way communication system, with transit vehicles sending requests to the traffic signal system, which then
responds by adjusting signal timing through methods like green extension and red truncation (Christofa
and Skabardonis, 2011a; Currie and Shalaby, 2008; Lin et al., 2015; Truong et al., 2019; Zeng et al., 2021).
Most of these studies have focused on developing TSP strategies based on fixed cycle lengths or are limited
to dedicated bus lanes. As a result, these strategies overlook the potential consequences on private vehicles
i.e., overall traffic flow. In addition, these studies rely on rule-based approaches and optimization under
various constraints to balance travel time of transit and private vehicles (Lee and Wang, 2022).

    Adaptive-TSP systems dynamically respond to changing traffic conditions and adjust signal timings
accordingly. These systems utilize real-time traffic information and other vehicle information ­ including
vehicle occupancies ­ to optimize performance measures, such as minimizing delay for both vehicles and
passengers. In many cases, the optimization objectives consider prioritizing factors like maximizing person
capacity or minimizing person delay, schedule delay, vehicle queues and emissions rather than vehicle-based
measures alone (Chen et al., 2023; Christofa et al., 2016, 2013; Christofa and Skabardonis, 2011b; Ding et al.,
2015; Lee and Wang, 2022; Li et al., 2020; Ma et al., 2014; Yu et al., 2018, 2017; Zeng et al., 2015; Zhao and
Ma, 2018; Zhao and Zhou, 2019). The computational complexity of these problems calls for formulation as
mixed integer linear problems that are commonly solved using techniques such as dynamic programming
(Wu and Guler, 2019; Wu et al., 2020), genetic algorithms (Ghanim and Abu-Lebdeh, 2015; Yang and Fan,
2023), reinforcement learning (Alizadeh Shabestray and Abdulhai, 2019; Guo and Wang, 2021; Ling and
Shalaby, 2004; Long et al., 2022). With the emergence of connected vehicle (CV) technology, researchers
have leveraged two-way communication, precise vehicle location tracking, and passenger count information
in TSP research (Chen et al., 2022; Hu et al., 2022, 2015; Yang et al., 2019; Yang and Fan, 2023). More
recently, passenger occupancy-based signal timing has been developed using reinforcement learning; see e.g.,
(Vlachogiannis et al., 2023). However, these learning-based methods rely on extensive training and are not
generally transferable to situations that were not observed within the training process. And, as will be
described later in this paper, the reward considered in (Vlachogiannis et al., 2023) does not appropriately
account for downstream space availability, which could limit its effectiveness.

    A recent study (Xu et al., 2022) proposed the integration of rule-based TSP into MP control. The study

                                                                      2
demonstrated that the combined MP-TSP policy outperforms fixed-time-TSP and adaptive-TSP policies in
reducing vehicle travel times, while having the ability to serve a larger demand. However, the proposed
policy relies on constraints that reduce the stable region or private vehicles compared to the original max
pressure policy. Moreover, the control uses a set of rules that switch between the original control policy and
TSP depending on the detection of buses thus, it provided unconditional priority to buses at the expense
of other vehicles. Furthermore, the application was also limited to arterials with dedicated bus lanes, while
most urban networks have shared lanes for transit vehicles and private automobiles.

    In light of these drawbacks, this study proposes a novel occupancy-based MP policy (OCC-MP) that
combines passenger occupancies and vehicle queues when determining signal timings. By increasing the
weight of movements with more queued passengers in the signal timing process, transit and other HOVs
are implicitly prioritized over private automobiles as they typically carry more passengers. The study
also analytically proves that OCC-MP maintains the maximum stability property for isolated intersections
without reducing the size of the stable region. A stability analysis using micro-simulation also reveals
that the OCC-MP policy has a similar stable region to the original MP, as well as a larger stable region
compared to rule-based MP that provides TSP. Simulation tests demonstrate that OCC-MP can provide
priority to higher occupancy private automobiles, if occupancy information of these vehicles is available.
Unlike previous attempts to integrate TSP with MP, the proposed strategy can also be applied to networks
with shared bus lanes (i.e., transit vehicles and private automobiles move in the same lanes). OCC-MP can
also be applied in a partial CV environment, both when a subset of vehicles can be detected and when a
subset can provide occupancy information to the signal controller. The performance of OCC-MP is also
shown to be robust to errors in passenger occupancy information from transit vehicles.

    The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. The next section provides an overview of the proposed
OCC-MP control policy. This is followed by the simulation setup used to evaluate the performance of OCC-
MP against baseline methods. Then, the results of the experiments are presented, including a comparative
analysis between the proposed methods and the baseline approaches. The last section concludes the paper
by highlighting the important findings and suggesting potential directions for future research.

2. Method

2.1. Max Pressure

    Before the MP signal control is described, some notations are provided. Consider a network made up of
links and nodes: each link represents a directional road segment between two adjacent intersections which
are represented by nodes. Upstream and downstream links at an intersection facilitate the movement of
incoming and outgoing vehicles. Movement (l, m) represents the pair of links that serves vehicles from an
upstream link l to a downstream link m. U (i) denotes the set of all upstream links at intersection i, and
D(l) denotes the set of links downstream of link l. The proportion of traffic that turns from link l to link m
is denoted by r(l, m). The rate vehicles are allowed to pass through an intersection from link l to m per unit
time is represented by the saturation flow, C(l, m), which is a random but upper bounded variable. Each
intersection serves a set of signal phases denoted by i where each signal phase serves a set of vehicular
movements. Li contains the set of movements served by phase  at intersection i.

    The MP algorithm involves three key steps;

   1. Obtain the weights (w) of each movement. Weight is assigned to each movement by calculating the
       difference between the metric value of that movement and the average value of the metric for its
       downstream movements. This weight serves as an indicator of the level of congestion of both the
       upstream and downstream end of a movement. Note that for isolated intersections or intersections at
       the boundary of a network, downstream movements serving exit vehicles are not considered.

   2. Calculate the pressure (P ) of each phase. The pressure of each phase is calculated by summing up the
       weight multiplied by the associated saturation flow over all movements served by that phase. This is
       used to determine the relative importance of each phase served by the signal.

                                                                      3
3. Determine signal timing (S) using pressure. In acyclic MP algorithms, the phase with the highest
   pressure is activated in the next time step without regarding the sequence of phases. On the other
   hand, in cyclic MP algorithms, the green time for each phase in the next cycle is assigned proportionally
   based on the pressures of the respective phases in the designated phase sequence. The proposed model
   follows the former type.

2.2. Proposed OCC-MP policy

    The original MP policy proposed in (Varaiya, 2013) ­ referred to in this paper as the Q-MP ­ uses the
number of queued vehicles on each link as the metric to determine the weights of the movements. Thus, it
treats both buses and private vehicles equally and disregards the fact that a bus can transport significantly
more passengers compared to a single-occupancy passenger vehicle. Consequently, in the Q-MP algorithm,
the right of way may be assigned to a movement with five single-occupancy vehicles rather than a bus
carrying fifty passengers. In contrast, traditional rule-based TSP algorithms (including that integrated with
MP in (Xu et al., 2022)) prioritize bus movements at an intersection regardless of the level of congestion on
adjacent links. This means that a bus with no passengers would be given the right of way over a conflicting
movement with many queued vehicles posing the risk of a queue spillback.

    To address these limitations, the proposed algorithm (OCC-MP) considers the number of queued vehicles
and the average occupancy of the vehicles queued on the upstream movements in order to prioritize move-
ments involving transit or HOVs. Specifically, the weight assigned to each movement is calculated as the
product of the difference between the upstream and downstream queue lengths and the average occupancy
upstream (1).

                                             +

w(l, m) = o(l, m) x(l, m) -         x(m, n)r(m, n) = o(l, m)wq(l, m)+  (1)

                             nD(m)

    where o(l, m) is the average occupancy over all vehicles in the upstream movement (l, m); x(i, j) is
the number of vehicles queued on movement (i, j), and the + symbol around the square bracket denotes
the maximum of either 0 or the value inside the square brackets. The term in the square brackets is
the weight of the original MP (Q-MP), wq(l, m). An additional modification is made so that movements
with negative weights are set to 0. This arises when downstream links are more congested than upstream
links. Ignoring negative weights is useful when a phase serves multiple movements ­ e.g., a through and
a right turn movement ­ and the weight of one movement is negative while the other is positive. Often,
a negative weight on a minor movement (e.g., a right turn) adversely reduces the weights of the major
movement (e.g., the through movement). This reduces the pressure of that phase and leads to activation
of less critical phases, reducing throughput. Such a modification has been used in prior studies and shown
to improve network performance (Gregoire et al., 2015; Ahmed et al., 2024). This term is then multiplied
by the average occupancy of vehicles upstream. Since all vehicles have an occupancy of at least 1 and the
maximum passenger capacity is finite, the average occupancy on a movement is a positive and bounded
number. Therefore, the weight calculation in the OCC-MP algorithm is essentially a scaled-up version of
the weight defined in the Q-MP algorithm.

    At each update interval, the pressure of phase  can be expressed as:

P =           w(l, m) × C(l, m) × S(l, m),   i                         (2)

     (l,m)Li

where S(l, m) is a binary variable associated with phase  indicating whether movement (l, m) is served by
phase .

    Finally, at intersection i, the policy selects the phase with the maximum pressure in the set of all phases
i (3). In this study, the signals are updated in the subsequent time step.

                             S = arg max P                             (3)

                                    i

                                    4
    The benefit of considering the average occupancy is that it allows the control policy to distinguish
between movements that serve vehicles of higher occupancy and those that do not. Figure 1 provides a
simple illustrative example with two one-way movements. Only private vehicles are queued in the N-S
direction while both private vehicles and a bus are queued in the W-E direction. The W-E movement
has 3 vehicles queued upstream and 2 vehicles downstream; thus its weight under the Q-MP policy is
wq(W, E) = (3 - 2) = 1. The N-S movement has 5 queued vehicles on its upstream link and 2 vehicles
downstream, hence, its weight under the Q-MP policy is wq(N, S) = (5 - 2) = 3. Therefore, Q-MP
prioritizes the N-S movement over the W-E movement. Under the OCC-MP policy however, the W-E
movement a weight of, w(W, E) = (20 + 2 + 2)/3(3 - 2) = 8 while the N-S movement has a weight of
w(N, S) = wq(N, S) = (1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1)/5(5 - 2) = 3. Therefore, OCC-MP provides TSP by prioritizing
the W-E movement.

                                              Figure 1: Example of transit signal priority using OCC-MP.

    The occupancy of the downstream vehicles is not considered when calculating the weight of the movement.
This is because the downstream portion of the weight captures supply constraints on that link. Therefore,
simply replacing the number of queued vehicles with the number of passengers on both upstream and
downstream ­ as was done in (Vlachogiannis et al., 2023) ­ would mean downstream supply issues. The
presence of downstream vehicles accounts for available storage space on the receiving links. More waiting
passengers downstream, specifically in buses, does not necessarily mean that a link has little capacity to
accommodate vehicles from upstream links. Therefore, only the average upstream occupancy is considered.
In cases where there are no vehicles downstream or in isolated intersections where downstream movements
are ignored in the weight calculation, the weight of the movements in the OCC-MP algorithm is equal to the
number of passengers upstream. For example, in Figure 1, if there were no vehicles downstream on either
movements, w(N, S) and w(W, E) would represent the number of queued passengers on the N-S and the
W-E movements respectively.

    Since OCC-MP requires information on vehicle occupancy, it is assumed that such information is available
to the controller. In scenarios where private vehicle occupancies are not readily available, an average
occupancy value is assumed. However, in a fully connected vehicle environment, it is assumed that the
occupancy information may be readily accessible. On the contrary, many buses are currently equipped with
automatic passenger counting (APC) systems that allow real-time information of the number of passengers
onboard a transit vehicle. Therefore, the exact bus occupancies are assumed to be available for weight
calculation.

                                                                      5
    Intersections where conflicting bus routes are served by different phases often receive simultaneous pri-
ority requests. Most prior studies have used either a first-come-first-serve or model-based methods (e.g.,
person-delay optimization, schedule-deviation minimization) to decide the sequence of phases at conflict
intersections (Christofa et al., 2013; Head et al., 2006; Hu et al., 2016; Ma et al., 2013). These methods are
subject to strict constraints that reduce the efficacy and increase the complexity of TSP control policies. The
proposed OCC-MP handles conflict intersections much more efficiently without any additional constraints
or assumptions. Specifically, if multiple buses are competing for right of way, OCC-MP selects the phase
with the highest pressure considering the size of the queue on the link and the average occupancy of both
buses and private vehicles. This way, OCC-MP is able to resolve conflicting bus movements at intersections
without compromising the flow of private vehicles.

2.3. Maximum stability for isolated intersections

    A signal control policy is stable if the average service rate in the network is equal to the average demand,
i.e., the average number of vehicles in the network remain bounded (Levin, 2023). Maximum stability refers
to the property that the policy can serve a traffic demand if this demand can be accommodated by an
admissible control strategy. This section proves the maximum stability property for the proposed OCC-MP
for isolated intersections.

    For isolated intersections, as mentioned before, all outgoing links are regarded as sink links, and the
traffic states on those links are not considered in the pressure calculation. Therefore, only the incoming
links for isolated intersections are considered for the rest of this section. Traffic dynamics, in terms of the
evolution of number of vehicles, on movement (l, m) can be expressed as:

           x (l, m) (t + 1) = x (l, m) (t) + d (l, m) (t) - min {C (l, m) (t) S (l, m) (t) , x (l, m) (t)}  (4)

where d (l, m) (t) is the external demand for movement (l, m) at time t.

Definition 1. A demand d is feasible if there exists an admissible control sequence {S(t) : t = 0, 1, 2, ...}

such that

                 d¯(l, m)  S¯(l, m)c(l, m), (l, m)                                                          (5)

where d¯(l, m) is the average external demand of movement (l, m), S¯(l, m) is the proportion of time steps

that movement (l, m) is activated, and c(l, m) is the average saturation flow for movement (l, m).

    The set of demand satisfying Eq. (5), denoted by D, is called feasible demand region, and D0 is used to
indicate the interior of D. Let S indicate the set of admissible phases at the isolated intersection and co(S)
denote the convex hull of S, which can be expressed as:

                co(S) = { eSe|e  0, e = 1}                                                                  (6)

                                               Se S     e

It is easy to prove that a control matrix  is in co(S) if and only if there exists an admissible control

sequence {S(t) : t = 0, 1, 2, ...} such that:

                 S¯(l, m) = (l, m), (l, m)                                                                  (7)

    Combining Definition 1 and Eq. (7) obtains that a demand d is in the feasible region if and only if there
exists a matrix   co(S) such that

                 d¯(l, m)  (l, m)c(l, m), (l, m)                                                            (8)

Definition 2. A signal control sequence {S(t) : t = 0, 1, 2, ..., T } stabilizes the queue process in the mean if
the average queue length in the network is upper bounded, i.e.,

             1T                                E(x(l, m)(t))  M, T = 1, 2, 3...                             (9)

             T  t=1 l,m

where M < .

                                                     6
Theorem 1 (Maximum stability). Assume the expected value of the average occupancy of a movement is

independent of the queue length of that movement, the proposed OCC-MP algorithm stabilizes the queue
process for isolated intersections if d  D0.

Proof. As mentioned before, it is assumed the supply downstream of the outgoing links at isolated intersec-
tions is infinity, so the number of vehicles on the outgoing links is always upper bounded. Therefore, only
number of vehicles on the incoming links is considered in this proof.

    Let  represent the difference in the queue length of movement (l, m) between two consecutive steps
under the control of OCC-MP, S. Eq. (4) leads to,

(l, m)(t + 1) = x(l, m)(t + 1) - x(l, m)(t) = d(l, m)(t) - min(x(l, m)(t), C(l, m)(t)S(l, m)(t)) (10)

          
    Let o(t) indicate the vector of which each element is the square root of the average occupancy of a
movement at the isolated intersection, i.e., o(t) = { o(l, m) : (l, m)}. Then,

          X(t  +  1)|2  -            X(t)|2  =             X(t))T              (t))  +            (t  +  1)|2  =  2  +    (11)
| o(t)                     | o(t)               2( o(t)            ( o(t)               | o(t)

where A  B is the Hadamard product of vectors A and B, |X|  xiX xi, |X|2  xiX(xi)2.
    Next, it is proved that there exist k <  and  > 0 such that

                                     X(t  +  1)|2  -            X(t)|2)|X(t),             k  -  |X(t)|                    (12)
                    E{(| o(t)                         | o(t)                     o(t)}

According to Eq. (10),  can be expressed as:

                     = o(l, m)(t) [d(l, m)(t) - min(x(l, m)(t), C(l, m)(t)S(l, m)(t))]2                                   (13)

                           l,m

    Since o(l, m)(t), d(l, m)(t), and min(x(l, m)(t), C(l, m)(t)S(l, m)(t)) are all upper bounded by a con-
stant, it is easy to see that  is upper bounded by a constant.

    For simplicity, (l, m) from the expression of  is omitted in the following. Combining Eqs. (10) and (11)
obtains,

           = o(t)x(t)(d(t) - min(x(t), C(t)S(t))

                  l,m

               = o(t)x(t)(d(t) - C(t)S(t)) + o(t)x(t)(C(t)S(t) - min(x(t), C(t)S(t)))

                  l,m                                    l,m                                                              (14)

                                             
               = 1(l, m)(t) + 2(l, m)(t)

                  l,m                l,m

               = 1 + 2

It is easy to obtain that for each movement (l, m),

                                   = 0,                          if x(l, m)(t)  C(l, m)(t)S(l, m)(t)                    (15a)
                  2(l, m)(t)  o(l, m)(t)C2(l, m)(t) otherwise                                                           (15b)

    Therefore, 2 = l,m 2 (l, m)(t) is also upper bounded by a constant.
    Since S maximizes l,m o(t)x(t)C(t)S(t) and d(t) is in the stable region, according to Eq. (8), there
exist a control matrix   co(S) and  > 0 such that

                                                                                          
                        E{1|X(t), o(t)}  o(t)x(t)E{(d(t) - C(t))|X(t), o(t)}

                                                   l,m

                                                = o(t)x(t)(d¯- c(t))                                                      (16)

                                                   l,m

                                                 - o(t)x(t)

                                                         l,m

                                                              7
Since o(l, m) >= 1,                               

                                    E{1|X(t), o(t)}  - x(t)                                    (17)

                                                                  l,m

    Until now, it is proved that  and 2 are upper bounded by a constant, and the conditional expectation
of 1 is bounded by a form shown in Eq. (17). Then,

                                    X(t  +  1)|2  -            X(t)|2)|X(t),  
                     E{(| o(t)                       | o(t)                     o(t)}
                                                                                      
=E                   {o(t)}T  E  {(X(t   +  1)    X(t   +  1)  -  X(t)    X(t)|X(t),    o(t)}  (18)

k - |X(t)|

Then, taking expectation for both side and sum over t = 1, 2, 3, ..., T obtains:

                     T          E  {|X(t)|}       k  +  1 E{o}T E{X(1)  X(1)}                  (19)
                     t=1

                                 T                 T

    Since it is assumed that the expectation of average occupancy, E{o}, is fixed, the right-hand side of Eq.
(19) is a constant. Eq. (19) indicates the average queue length in the network under the control of OCC-MP
is upper bounded.

    Although the maximum stability for a large network is not established for the original feasible region,
defined by Q-MP, the simulation results in Section 4 demonstrate that the feasible region of the proposed
OCC-MP is larger than that of a rule-based MP algorithm that provides TSP (Xu et al., 2022), which was
proved to be stable for a smaller feasible region.

3. Simulation Setup

    Simulation tests in the AIMSUN micro-simulation platform were performed to evaluate the effectiveness
of the proposed OCC-MP control strategy. AIMSUN was chosen for its ability to realistically model traffic
dynamics, such as congestion propagation, queue spillbacks, vehicle routing, and driving behavior(Barcelo´
and Casas, 2005).

3.1. Network setup

    Simulation tests were carried out on an 8x8 grid network shown in Figure 2. While real-world street
networks may not perfectly align with a square grid pattern, many urban networks exhibit grid-like charac-
teristics. Previous studies that have simulated grid traffic networks reported results that can be generalized
to more realistic networks (Bayrak et al., 2023; Knoop et al., 2012; Mazloumian et al., 2010; Ortigosa et al.,
2019; Ortigosa and Menendez, 2014). Road segments were categorized as arterials with mixed use that
accommodate both private vehicles and buses. All road segments were assumed to have bi-directional traffic
flow, with three travel lanes in each direction serving dedicated right, through and left movements at an
approach (Figure 3). Each segment was 200 meters long with a saturation flow of 1800 vehicles per hour
and a posted speed limit of 50 km/h. Within the network, all 64 intersections were signalized and consist
of four phases, where through and right movements are served by one phase while left turning movements
have a separate phase (Figure 3).

    Private vehicle origins and destinations were strategically positioned at the 32 O-D centroids located
along the network's perimeter. A symmetric demand pattern was adopted, in which the demand at North-
South origin centroids was assumed to be twice the demand at East-West origin centroids. A two-hour
peak period was simulated, consisting of gradually increasing private vehicle demand in three 30 minute
intervals, followed by a decrease in the last 30 minutes. This was then followed by a one-hour cooldown
period. Two demand scenarios were tested: a high demand scenario with an average of 32,256 vehicles
entering the network and a low demand scenario with an average of 23,040 entering vehicles (Figure 4).
To model the private vehicle routing behavior, the study utilized the stochastic c-logit route choice model

                                                                      8
                                 SB-W            SB-C

               EB-N                                                    WB-N
              EB-CN                                                    WB-CS
              EB-SN                                                    WB-SS

                                 NB-W     NB-C

                           Figure 2: Network configuration.

              Lane configuration Phase 1  Phase 2             Phase 3  Phase 4

                           Figure 3: Lane configuration and phases.

25000         High demand                              20000           Low demand

20000Demand (Veh/hr)                                   16000
                                                                               Cooldown
15000                                                                                           Demand (Veh/hr)12000
                                                                                                                                                                                Cooldown
10000                                                  8000

5000                                                   4000

0                                                      0

7.30 8.00     8.30 9.00    9.30           10.30        7.30 8.00       8.30 9.00   9.30                                                                                                   10.30
                                           AM                                                                                                                                              AM
       AM AM  AM     AM    AM                                 AM AM    AM     AM   AM

                               Figure 4: Time varied demand.

integrated within AIMSUN. This routing model aimed to replicate a stochastic user-equilibrium routing
solution, where vehicles select routes at the beginning of a trip to minimize travel times.

    The simulated network consists of ten bus routes, which include a combination of bi-directional and
unidirectional routes as shown in Figure 2. Six of the routes operate between three pairs of O-D centroids:
(SB-W, NB-W), (SB-C, NB-C), and (EB-N, WB-N). The remaining four routes ­ EB-CN, WB-CS, EB-SN,
and WB-SS ­ are unidirectional, meaning that buses travel in only one direction. Within the network,
there are seven high-occupancy routes indicated by green labels and three low-occupancy routes (marked
with red labels) in Figure 2. The study simulates two different levels of passenger demand. In the high
passenger demand scenario, the high occupancy routes are assigned an average occupancy of 50 passengers
per bus, while the low occupancy routes have an average occupancy of 25 passengers per bus. In contrast,

                                                                      9
the low passenger demand scenario assumes the high occupancy routes have an average occupancy of 12
passengers per bus, while the low occupancy routes have an average occupancy of 3 passengers per bus.
Two levels of bus frequencies were also simulated where the headway between buses in the high frequency
case was 2 minutes on average, while the low frequency case was simulated with an average headway of
5 minutes between consecutive bus arrivals on each route. The network includes ten conflict intersections
denoted by red circles in Figure 2 where buses may compete for right of way at the same time. As conflicting
movements are served by different phases, the phase with a higher pressure while considering the average
upstream occupancies will be served using the OCC-MP.

    The performance of OCC-MP is compared with two other baseline policies. The first is the original
Q-MP policy. The second baseline policy is an MP-based strategy that incorporates a rule-based transit
signal priority, referred to as RB-MP. The RB-MP seeks to mimic the strategy proposed in (Xu et al.,
2022). Specifically, it follows the MP framework to determine the weights, calculate the pressure and assign
the right of way to the phase with the maximum pressure similar to the three steps shown in Section 2.1.
However, the difference is that the algorithm uses a set of constraints that ensures unconditional priority
to buses if they are detected within the queue of vehicles on a movement. To enforce this, the weight of a
movement is increased by a sufficiently large constant, M , if a bus is detected which increases the pressure
of the phase serving that movement. Therefore, at the end of the update interval, this phase is activated.
However, if there are no buses present, RB-MP functions similar to Q-MP. In the case of multiple buses
approaching an intersection on competing phases i.e., both of their movements cannot be accommodated by
the same phase to avoid conflicts, the right of way is assigned to the phase that maximizes the pressure of
private vehicles i.e., the phase with more queued vehicles is served. A pseudocode of the algorithm behind
RB-MP is provided below.

Algorithm 1 RB-MP pseudocode

   # calculate weight of all movements at intersection i
   if time == update interval then

       for each movement (l, m)  Li do
            wRB-MP(l, m)  x(l, m) - nD(m) x(m, n) × r(m, n)
            if xbus(l, m) > 0 then
                wRB-MP(l, m) += M
            end if

       end for
       # calculate pressure of all phases
       for each phase   i do

            PRB-MP  (l,m)Li wRB-MP(l, m) × c(l, m)
       end for
       # activate phase with maximum pressure
       SRB-MP  arg maxi PRB-MP
   end if
   return SRB-MP

    To ensure consistency in the evaluation, all three MP control policies adopt a signal update interval of
10 seconds.

3.2. Scenario setup

    Different scenarios were simulated to understand the benefits and potential application of the proposed
control policy. Scenario 1 assumes the system has no knowledge of private vehicle passenger occupancy. In
this case, an average of 1.5 persons per private vehicle, as reported in (Schrank et al., 2021), is assumed.
However, the exact bus occupancies are assumed to be available from APC data. This scenario is further
extended to test the resilience of the policy due to errors in the reported bus occupancies from APC. To test
this, a random error term was added to the occupancies of buses reported to the controller after crossing

                                                                     10
every intersection. The error term was assumed to have a mean of 0 and standard deviation of % of the
true occupancy at each intersection and additive over every intersection. Varying values of  from 0 to 40
were tested to understand the impact of discrepancies in transmitted APC data and how it impacts the
network performance.

    Scenario 2 assumes individual vehicle occupancies are available to the signal controller, as would be pos-
sible in a CV environment. This means that the system has complete knowledge of both private vehicle and
bus occupancies, which is leveraged by the OCC-MP policy to dynamically calculate weights of movements
based on their occupancy levels. Within the simulation, each private vehicle entering the network was ran-
domly assigned an occupancy based on a probability distribution (shown in Table 1) such that the average
private vehicle occupancy was approximately 1.5. In a fully connected environment, it is assumed that all
vehicles are equipped with CV technology that is leveraged by the MP policies to accurately measure the
queue lengths and (or) occupancies. However, a network may have mixed flow comprising of both connected
and non-connected vehicles. Therefore, a partially connected environment was also considered in which the
CV penetration rate was varied from 20% to 100% to understand how the policies perform when limited
information is available.

                                             Table 1: Probability distribution of private vehicle occupancy

         Occupancy                       Probability

               1                              0.7
               2                            0.125
               3
               4                              0.1
               5                             0.05
                                            0.025

    Within both scenarios, a total of 8 sub-scenarios were simulated, each representing a different combination
of private vehicle demand, bus occupancy, and bus frequency. The private vehicle demand represents the
overall traffic flow in the network, while the bus occupancy and frequency directly affect the bus operations
and interactions with other vehicles. By considering both high and low occupancy levels and varying bus
headways, the impact of different bus configurations on the performance of the policies can be analyzed.
Table 2 contains the configuration of the sub-scenarios. Each sub-scenario was simulated with 10 different
random seeds to account for stochasticity and ensure robust analysis.

                                                               Table 2: Summary of sub-scenarios

Sub-scenario Private vehicle demand  Bus passenger demand  Bus frequency

1  Low                               High                  High
                                     High                  Low
2  Low                               Low                   High
                                     Low                   Low
3  Low                               High                  High
                                     High                  Low
4  Low                               Low                   High
                                     Low                   Low
5  High

6  High

7  High

8  High

                                     11
4. Results

4.1. Scenario 1: Non-connected vehicle environment

    To quantify the level of congestion in the network, average network speeds under the Q-MP policy across
the eight sub-scenarios are provided in Figure 5. The lines represent the mean value across all ten simulation
iterations, while the shaded areas represent the confidence interval with ± one standard error of observed
values. Sub-scenarios with similar private vehicle and bus demands but different occupancies were grouped
together as the Q-MP does not consider vehicle occupancies. As expected, the average network speeds drop
drastically from about 25 km/h to just under 20km/h due to the increase in private vehicle demand. A
change in bus headway from 5 minutes to 2 minutes also results in a slight decrease in network speeds, as
expected.

                                        35                                 Sub-scenario 1,3
                                                                           Sub-scenario 2,4
                                                                           Sub-scenario 5,7
Average vehicle speed under QMP (km/h)                                     Sub-scenario 6,8
                                        30

                                        25

                                        20

                                        15

                                            0  20  40 Time (m6in0utes) 80  100 120

Figure 5: Average vehicle speeds under Q-MP across sub-scenarios.

4.1.1. Vehicle travel time comparison
    First, tests were conducted for  = 0, which indicate that APC data from buses is perfectly accurate.

Figure 6 presents the percentage change in vehicle travel time (VTT) of private vehicles under OCC-MP
and RB-MP strategies, relative to the Q-MP. Standard errors across the ten simulation iterations are shown
using whiskers. It is evident that integrating TSP using either the RB-MP or OCC-MP policies results in an
increase in VTT of private vehicles over Q-MP. However, OCC-MP has a lower negative impact on private
vehicles compared to RB-MP across all sub-scenarios.

    It is expected that OCC-MP will behave similar to Q-MP when few buses are present; Sub-scenarios
3, 4, 6 and 8 confirm this as the confidence intervals designated by the standard errors contain 0, which
suggests no statistically significant difference between the performance of OCC-MP and Q-MP. Sub-scenario
8, in which the demand for private vehicles was high and buses had a lower frequency and lower passenger
occupancies, resulted in only 0.36% increase in private vehicle travel time. This can be attributed to the fact
that there were fewer buses with lower occupancies in the network, leading OCC-MP to select similar phases
to Q-MP. The maximum percentage change in VTT from OCC-MP is 2.64% and observed for Sub-scenario
5, which has high bus frequency and passenger occupancy. In this sub-scenario, OCC-MP frequently selected
phases to prioritize the movement of buses carrying more passengers. Note that RB-MP is not impacted
by bus occupancies; thus, the same average VTTs were observed across pairs of sub-scenarios with the
same vehicular demand. Overall, RB-MP resulted in statistically significant increases in VTT, ranging from
3.50% to 25.75%. Interestingly, the best performance of RB-MP is still worse than the worst performance

                                                                     12
                                                 OCC-MP
                                                 RB-MP
% change in private vehicle TT over Q-MP  25

                                          20

                                          15

                                          10

                                          5

                                          0

                                              1          2  3  4Sub-Scenar5ios  6  7  8

Figure 6: Percentage change in private vehicle travel time over Q-MP.

of OCC-MP. This can be attributed to the fact that OCC-MP may select phases in which private vehicle
queues are large, even when buses are present. The results highlight the effectiveness of the OCC-MP
strategy in mitigating the negative impact on private vehicle travel times when compared to RB-MP. To
further demonstrate the difference in impacts to private vehicles across the three control strategies, Figure
7 plots the VTT of private vehicles per minute. Notice that the VTT continues to grow under the RB-MP
policy despite the reduction in vehicle demand at the 90 minute mark. By contrast, the Q-MP and OCC-
MP policies show VTT trends that reflect the level of vehicle demand. This finding is indicative of queue
spillback phenomenon due to growing vehicle queues in the RB-MP policy.

                                                                                       Time (minutes)

                                            Figure 7: Total travel time of private vehicles (Sub-scenario 7).

    Figure 8 illustrates the percent change in bus VTT under both OCC-MP and RB-MP compared to Q-MP.
The results show that both strategies lead to a reduction in bus travel times compared to the baseline Q-MP
strategy across all sub-scenarios, and all improvements are statistically significant. However, the magnitude
of the improvement varies between the two strategies. As expected, RB-MP consistently outperforms OCC-
MP and provides larger reductions in bus VTT since it provides full priority to buses. OCC-MP achieves
an average reduction in bus VTT of 14.5% when buses have higher occupancies (Sub-Scenarios 1, 2, 5 and
6) and 7.5% when buses are less crowded (Sub-Scenarios 3, 4, 7 and 8). This is expected as weights of bus
movements are lower when there are fewer passengers onboard. Conversely, RB-MP shows little variation
between the different sub-scenarios and achieves a nearly consistent average reduction of approximately 30%

                                                                     13
across all sub-scenarios.

                              0

                              5

% change in bus TT over Q-MP  10

                              15

                              20

                              25

                              30     OCC-MP

                              35     RB-MP

                                  1          2  3  4Sub-Scenar5ios  6  7  8

                                  Figure 8: Percentage change in bus travel time over Q-MP.

4.1.2. Passenger travel time comparison
    Figure 9 compares the passenger travel times (PTT) of both OCC-MP and RB-MP strategies against Q-

MP for all sub-scenarios. The results reveal that OCC-MP yields lower total PTT compared to Q-MP in 6 out
of 8 sub-scenarios, indicating a positive impact on overall passenger mobility. The improvements range from
approximately 0.1% to 3.6% on average, mostly in scenarios with higher bus occupancies. Maximum benefits
were observed in Sub-scenario 1, suggesting OCC-MP best reduces overall passenger travel times when there
are relatively fewer private vehicles and more buses carrying more passengers. Sub-scenarios 7 and 8 saw a
nominal increase in passenger travel times by 0.9% and 0.1% respectively over Q-MP; however, the confidence
intervals denoted by the standard errors reveal these increases are note statistically significant. Conversely,
RB-MP shows mixed results with some sub-scenarios exhibiting improvements and others significant negative
effects on PTT over Q-MP. Sub-scenarios 1 and 2 show improvements of 3.5% and 2.3% respectively, which
were similar to OCC-MP in terms of PTT improvements. However, in the other sub-scenarios, RB-MP
results in an increase in PTT ranging from approximately 1.9% up to 21.2% in Sub-Scenario 7. Previously
it was found that Sub-Scenario 7 also corresponds to the highest increase in VTT of private vehicles and
lowest bus VTT improvement compared to Q-MP. This highlights the superior performance of OCC-MP in
balancing VTT of private vehicles and buses, ultimately resulting in lower passenger travel times.

4.1.3. Network stability comparison
    Sub-section 2.3 of this paper analytically proves that OCC-MP possesses maximum stability at an isolated

intersection. To compare the stability property of the three control algorithms used in this study on an urban
network, simulation results of the average accumulation (i.e., number of vehicles in the network) over time
across the sub-scenarios is shown in Figure 10. Vehicular demand is relatively low for the first 30 minutes
of the simulation, where it can be observed that the average accumulation is similar for all three control
policies. However, as the demand increases, the network experiences a higher average accumulation for
RB-MP than Q-MP or OCC-MP. Between 60-90 minutes, the vehicular demand is highest and represents
an unstable condition for all three control policies specifically in sub-scenarios 5-8 as the average network
accumulation keeps growing over time.

    As Q-MP has the largest stable region, Figure11 compares the difference in accumulation for OCC-MP
and RB-MP to further investigate how the stable region differs from Q-MP for different sub-scenarios. It is
evident that OCC-MP performs similar to Q-MP for most of the sub-scenarios as the shaded regions include
0. The accumulation under OCC-MP is higher than Q-MP in sub-scenarios 1 and 5 between 60-120 minutes
of the simulation. This is expected as the sudden spike in private vehicle demand leads to an increase

                                                                     14
                                        OCC-MP
                                        RB-MP
                                 20

% change in total PTT over Q-MP  15

                                 10

                                 5

                                 0

                                 5   1          2  3  4Sub-Scenar5ios  6  7  8

                                 Figure 9: Percent change in total passenger travel time over Q-MP.

in accumulation while buses have priority. The other sub-scenarios are not associated with a significant
difference over Q-MP. However, for the same private vehicle demand patterns, RB-MP has a significantly
higher average accumulation compared to OCC-MP when buses arrive at higher frequencies as seen in Sub-
scenarios 1, 3 and 5, 7. This suggests that the RB-MP has a smaller stable region compared to Q-MP and
OCC-MP while OCC-MP exhibits a similar stable region as Q-MP in an urban network for private vehicles,
even while prioritizing buses.

4.1.4. Sensitivity to APC errors
    The proposed OCC-MP policy relies on accurate bus passenger occupancy for signal updates. To assess

robustness of the policy against errors in APC data, additional simulations were conducted for sub-scenarios 1
and 3 in which incremental error terms of ±  % were introduced to the real occupancy of buses. Specifically,
the occupancy being transmitted to the controller at each intersection was subject to this error and continued
to accumulate until the bus exits the network.

    Table 3 shows the VTT of private vehicles and buses and combined PTT as  was increased from 0
to 40 at each intersection. The results indicate that there is relatively little variation observed across the
network performance metrics. From Table 3a, it can be seen that the travel times of private vehicles, buses,
and passengers in Sub-scenario 1 do not change significantly with . This suggests that OCC-MP performs
reasonably well even when there is significant misreporting of bus occupancies, particularly for buses with
high passenger demand. Sub-scenario 3 corresponds to a case with similar private vehicle and bus demand
as Sub-scenario 1 but with fewer bus passengers. Therefore, it is expected that further underreporting of its
occupancy may give it little to no priority over private vehicles and potentially result in higher travel times.
Table 3b shows that change in  leads to slightly higher travel times than when  = 0. However, all values
except bus travel time at  = 40 remain within one standard error of  = 0, suggesting differences are not
statistically significant. The consistency of the results indicates that the OCC-MP policy can effectively
adapt to and optimize travel times under potential discrepancies in the APC data.

4.2. Scenario 2: Connected vehicle environment

4.2.1. Fully connected environment
    The OCC-MP strategy was evaluated by simulating private vehicles with known occupancies and variable

bus occupancies to understand how the control policy impacts travel time of non-transit HOVs. Since RB-
MP does not differentiate vehicles by occupancy, it was not included in the analysis. Figure 12 presents
a comparison of the percent change in PTT for OCC-MP over Q-MP for vehicles with different vehicle
occupancies; values of 1 to 5 indicate private vehicles, while 6+ refers to buses. The results reveal that
single occupancy vehicles experience an increase in their travel times over the Q-MP. However, OCC-MP

                                                                     15
     Table 3: Summary of network performance against variance in APC data

     Private vehicle        (a) Sub-scenario 1        All passengers
                                                 Bus

     Travel time  Standard  Travel time  Standard     Travel time          Standard
     (veh-hr)     error     (veh-hr)     error        (pax-hr)             error
0%
10%  2298.66      12.33     37.39        0.14         5035.75              24.06
20%  2294.46      10.74     37.21        0.13         5021.77              19.81
30%  2295.34      11.42     37.14        0.11         5020.11              20.42
40%  2299.86      11.13     37.09        0.08         5023.77              18.53
     2299.46      12.22     37.32        0.14         5034.65              23.16

     Private vehicle        (b) Sub-scenario 3        All passengers
0%                                               Bus
10%
20%  Travel time  Standard  Travel time  Standard     Travel time          Standard
30%  (veh-hr)     error     (veh-hr)     error        (pax-hr)             error
40%
     2260.89      10.06     39.79        0.1          3754.45              15.72
     2265.1       9.93      39.88        0.1          3761.63              15.56
     2263.54      10.54     39.81        0.09         3758.36              16.36
     2262.01      9.98      39.81        0.12         3756.06              16.04
     2269.44      10.8      39.93        0.1          3768.99              16.57

                            16
                                                                  Q-MP                                            2000                             Q-MP
                                                                  OCC-MP                                                                           OCC-MP
                             2000                                 RB-MP                                                                            RB-MP
Accumulation in the network                                                          Accumulation in the network
                             1500                                                                                 1500

                             1000                                                                                 1000

                             500                                                                                  500

                             0                                                                                    0

                                   0  20      40 T6im0e (min8u0tes) 100 120 140                                         0  20  40 T6im0e (min8u0tes) 100 120 140

                                              (a) Sub-scenario 1                                                               (b) Sub-scenario 2

                                                                  Q-MP                                            2000                             Q-MP
                                                                  OCC-MP                                                                           OCC-MP
                             2000                                 RB-MP                                                                            RB-MP
Accumulation in the network                                                          Accumulation in the network
                             1500                                                                                 1500

                             1000                                                                                 1000

                             500                                                                                  500

                             0                                                                                    0
                                0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140                                                            0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
                                                       Time (minutes)                                                                       Time (minutes)

                                                 (c) Sub-scenario 3                                                                   (d) Sub-scenario 4

                                      Q-MP                                                                        5000                             Q-MP
                                      OCC-MP                                                                                                       OCC-MP
                             5000     RB-MP                                                                                                        RB-MP
Accumulation in the network                                                          Accumulation in the network  4000

                             4000

                             3000                                                                                 3000

                             2000                                                                                 2000

                             1000                                                                                 1000

                             0                                                                                    0
                                0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140                                                            0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
                                                       Time (minutes)                                                                       Time (minutes)

                                              (e) Sub-scenario 5                                                               (f) Sub-scenario 6

                             6000     Q-MP                                                                        5000                             Q-MP

                             5000     OCC-MP                                                                                                       OCC-MP
                                      RB-MP                                                                                                        RB-MP
Accumulation in the network                                                          Accumulation in the network  4000

                             4000                                                                                 3000

                             3000                                                                                 2000
                             2000
                             1000                                                                                 1000

                             0                                                                                    0
                                0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140                                                            0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
                                                       Time (minutes)                                                                       Time (minutes)

                                              (g) Sub-scenario 7                                                               (h) Sub-scenario 8

Figure 10: Evolution of average accumulation in the network under different control policies for Sub-scenarios 1-8.

                                                                                 17
Difference in accumulation over Q-MP  300                                  OCC-MP             Difference in accumulation over Q-MP  120                             OCC-MP
                                                                           RB-MP                                                                                    RB-MP
                                                                                                                                    100
                                      250

                                      200                                                                                           80
                                      150
                                      100                                                                                           60

                                                                                                                                    40

                                      50                                                                                            20
                                       0
                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                    20

                                            0  20      40 T6im0e (min8u0tes) 100 120 140                                                 0  20  40 T6im0e (min8u0tes) 100 120 140

                                                       (a) Sub-scenario 1                                                                       (b) Sub-scenario 2

Difference in accumulation over Q-MP  300                                  OCC-MP             Difference in accumulation over Q-MP  120                             OCC-MP
                                                                           RB-MP                                                                                    RB-MP
                                                                                                                                    100
                                      250

                                      200                                                                                           80

                                      150                                                                                           60

                                      100                                                                                           40

                                      50                                                                                            20

                                      0                                                                                             0

                                      50                                                                                            20
                                           0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
                                                                 Time (minutes)                                                          0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
                                                                                                                                                               Time (minutes)

                                                       (c) Sub-scenario 3                                                                       (d) Sub-scenario 4

                                      1750     OCC-MP                                                                               600                             OCC-MP

Difference in accumulation over Q-MP  1500     RB-MP                                          Difference in accumulation over Q-MP  500                             RB-MP

                                      1250                                                                                          400

                                      1000                                                                                          300

                                      750                                                                                           200

                                      500                                                                                           100

                                      250                                                                                           0

                                      0                                                                                             100
                                                                                                                                          0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
                                            0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140                                                                                            Time (minutes)
                                                                  Time (minutes)

                                                       (e) Sub-scenario 5                                                                       (f) Sub-scenario 6

                                      2000     OCC-MP                                                                               600                             OCC-MP

Difference in accumulation over Q-MP  1750     RB-MP                                          Difference in accumulation over Q-MP  500                             RB-MP

                                      1500                                                                                          400

                                      1250                                                                                          300

                                      1000                                                                                          200

                                      750                                                                                           100

                                      500

                                      250                                                                                           0

                                      0                                                                                             100

                                            0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140                                                                    0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
                                                                  Time (minutes)                                                                               Time (minutes)

                                                       (g) Sub-scenario 7                                                                       (h) Sub-scenario 8

Figure 11: Evolution of average accumulation in the network under different control policies for sub-scenarios 1-8.

                                                                                          18
effectively prioritizes movements with higher occupancy vehicles, resulting in reduced travel times for those
vehicles. Specifically, vehicles with an occupancy of 3 or more experience improvement in travel time in
5 out of 6 sub-scenarios. Interestingly, sub-scenarios with low private vehicle and bus demand (2 and 4),
exhibit lower travel time for vehicles with occupancy of 2 and more, highlighting the positive impact of
OCC-MP. By prioritizing HOV and buses even in mixed flow conditions without dedicated bus or HOV
lanes, OCC-MP can serve as a strategic approach to discourage single-occupancy vehicles on the roads,
promoting more efficient and sustainable transportation options.

                          5.0

                          2.5

% change in PTT over QMP  0.0

                          2.5

                          5.0

                          7.5 Occupancy
                                   1
                          10.0     2
                                   3
                          12.5     4
                                   5
                          15.0     6+

                                1        2  3  4Sub-scena5rios 6  7  8

Figure 12: Percent change in passenger travel time over Q-MP by occupancy under OCC-MP.

4.2.2. Partially connected environment
    Although CV technology provides the potential to acquire detailed information from individual vehicles

directly, implementation of a fully CV environment is farfetched. Therefore, the performances of the pro-
posed OCC-MP policy and baseline methods were investigated under varying rates of CV penetration. In
these tests, all control policies rely only on the information obtained from these CVs for measurement and
updating the signal times. Figure 13 shows the evolution of vehicle accumulation in the network for various
CV penetration rates. The accumulation is highest for all three control policies when information from only
20% of the private vehicles is available. With increasing CV penetration rate, the number of queued vehicles
in the network drops for all three policies resulting in lower congestion. Notice, however, the returns are
diminishing with respect to CV penetration rate; i.e., the highest improvements are gained from increasing
the penetration rate when the penetration rate is low. Note also that both Q-MP and OCC-MP have simi-
lar performance in terms of network congestion and show consistent reduction in vehicle accumulation with
increasing CV penetration rate, while the RB-MP strategy consistently performs the worst.

    The performance of the control policies in terms of private VTT, bus VTT and total PTT is shown in
Figure 14 for Sub-Scenario 1, which was chosen because OCC-MP demonstrated the largest improvement in
PTT. Overall, it is observed that the increase in penetration rate of CVs improves the travel time of private
vehicles and reduces the standard error across all policies, as more information becomes available on the
actual queue lengths vehicle occupancy (Figure 14a). The most significant improvements are observed for an
increase in the penetration rate from 20% to 40%. This slowly diminishes as the penetration rate is further
increased. RB-MP consistently demonstrates inferior performance compared to both Q-MP and OCC-MP.
At 20% penetration rate, travel times of private vehicles under Q-MP and OCC-MP are very similar, but
Q-MP further reduces travel times with the increase in CV penetration.

    From Figure 14b, it is evident that bus VTT also improves as the percentage of connected vehicles in
the network increases. Although there is a tradeoff between private vehicle and bus travel times, increasing
CV penetration translates to lower congestion in the network (Figure 11), which in turn improves the
overall bus operations. Note that these improvements are nominal for both Q-MP and OCC-MP, whereas

                                                                     19
                             3500                                          Q-MP                                 3500                                              Q-MP
                                                                                                                3000                                              OCC-MP
Accumulation in the network  3000                                          OCC-MP  Accumulation in the network  2500                                              RB-MP
                                                                           RB-MP                                2000
                                                                                                                1500   25 50 Tim7e5(minut1e0s)0 125 150
                             2500                                                                               1000                 (b) 40%.
                                                                                                                 500
                             2000
                                                                                                                   00
                             1500

                             1000

                             500

                             00    25  50 Tim7e5(minut1e0s)0 125 150

                                       (a) 20%.

                             3500                                          Q-MP                                 3500                                              Q-MP
                                                                                                                3000                                              OCC-MP
Accumulation in the network  3000                                          OCC-MP  Accumulation in the network  2500                                              RB-MP
                                                                           RB-MP                                2000
                                                                                                                1500   25 50 75 100 125 150
                             2500                                                                               1000                Time (minutes)
                                                                                                                 500                 (d) 80%.
                             2000
                                                                                                                   00
                             1500

                             1000

                             500

                             00    25  50 75 100 125 150
                                       Time (minutes)

                                       (c) 60%.

                                       Accumulation in the network  3500                                              Q-MP
                                                                    3000                                              OCC-MP
                                                                    2500                                              RB-MP
                                                                    2000   25 50 75 100 125 150
                                                                    1500                Time (minutes)
                                                                    1000
                                                                     500

                                                                       00

                                                                                   (e) 100%.

                                   Figure 13: Accumulation of vehicles in the network for different CV penetration rates .

larger improvements are observed for RB-MP with lower standard errors across the random seeds. Despite
resulting in higher private vehicle and bus VTT compared to Q-MP and RB-MP policies, respectively,
OCC-MP consistently resulted in the lowest PTT for all CV penetration rates (Figure 14c). Both the Q-MP
and RB-MP have very similar performances in terms of PTT, with reductions that are smaller than that
achieved by the OCC-MP. This highlights the reliability of the proposed OCC-MP policy even when only a
subset of the vehicles is connected.

5. Conclusion

    Conventional MP algorithms rely only on vehicle-related metrics to update signal timings. Thus, these
algorithms maximize vehicle throughput while overlooking the impact on transit and other HOVs. This
study introduces an occupancy-based Max Pressure (OCC-MP) algorithm that considers both the number

                                                                     20
                                             Q-MP                                                                             46
                                             OCC-MP
3400                                         RB-MP                                                                            44
3200
Private Vehicle travel time (veh-hr)3000                                                                                      42
                                                 Passenger travel time (pax-hr)2800
2600                                                                                                                          40
                                                                                                    Bus travel time (veh-hr)2400
2200                                                                                                                          38

       20                                                                                                                     36

                                                                                                                              34      Q-MP

                                                                                                                              32      OCC-MP
                                                                                                                                      RB-MP

           40 CV penet6r0ation rate 80       100                                                                                  20          40 CV penet6r0ation rate 80  100

           (a) Private vehicle travel time.                                                                                                   (b) Bus travel time.

           7000                                                                                                                       Q-MP
           6750                                                                                                                       OCC-MP
           6500                                                                                                                       RB-MP
           6250
           6000                              40 CV penet6r0ation rate 80                                                                      100
           5750
           5500
           5250
           5000

                  20

                                             (c) Passenger travel time.

           Figure 14: Effect of CV penetration rate.

of queued vehicles and the passenger occupancies within the upstream queued vehicles. The proposed policy
theoretically guarantees maximum stability at an isolated intersection, and is shown to prioritize transit and
HOV movement without reducing the size of the stable region compared to the original MP when applied
on an entire network.

    The performance of OCC-MP was tested against the original max pressure (Q-MP) and a rule-based MP
algorithm that provides TSP (RB-MP). Micro-simulation tests on a grid network demonstrate that OCC-
MP outperforms RB-MP in terms of reducing negative impacts on private vehicles while reducing bus VTT
compared to Q-MP. Overall, OCC-MP results in lower PTT under various demand and occupancy levels.
This is because OCC-MP not only prioritizes transit vehicles and those with higher occupancies, but also
serves the movements with large private vehicle queues. The best performance was observed in scenarios
with lower private vehicle demands and higher bus demands, with larger bus passenger occupancies. A
stability analysis showed that OCC-MP has a larger stable region than the RB-MP policy and one that
is comparable to the Q-MP policy; this suggests that OCC-MP is able to handle similar demands to Q-
MP (and larger than RB-MP) while still providing priority to buses. The control policy also demonstrates
nominal variation in passenger travel time from errors in APC data, highlighting the robustness of the
algorithm. Further tests in a CV environment show that an increase in the penetration rate of CVs improve
the overall performance of OCC-MP in reducing PTT. In a fully CV environment, OCC-MP consistently
outperforms baseline methods in reducing the VTT of HOVs and buses making it a sustainable strategy to
discourage single occupancy vehicles in a transportation network without the need to implement expensive
dedicated lane facilities. Moreover, OCC-MP can be readily deployed as a conditional TSP strategy in real
world environments yet to fully transition to CV technology with minimal additional sensing requirements,

                                                                     21
primarily relying on existing technologies such as TSP communications and APC systems. Corridors where
buses send a TSP request are already equipped with vehicle detection technology which can be slightly
modified to include occupancy data transmission from buses. Its universal applicability renders it useful for
implementation on networks with or without dedicated bus rapid transit (BRT) or HOV facilities.

    Although the simulations were conducted on a grid network, further research can explore the performance
of OCC-MP in more complex urban networks. Since the applicability of the proposed OCC-MP encompasses
mixed traffic, it may be interesting to explore its performance in networks with dedicated bus lanes or HOV
lanes. Moreover, given the increasing emphasis on creating "complete streets" that accommodate various
modes of transportation, future studies may consider developing MP control algorithms that consider the
complexities of multimodal transport. It is worth noting that (Liu and Gayah, 2023) demonstrated that
different MP algorithms may have different optimal update intervals that maximize their performance.
Therefore, the impact of optimal time-step for signal update interval can be explored for OCC-MP.
6. Acknowledgements

    This research was supported by NSF, United States Grant CMMI-1749200.
7. Author Contributions

    The authors confirm contribution to the paper as follows: study conception and design: TA, HL, VG;
analysis and interpretation of results: TA, HL, VG; draft manuscript preparation: TA, HL, VG. All authors
reviewed the results and approved the final version of the manuscript.

                                                                     22
References

Ahmed, T., Liu, H., Gayah, V.V., 2024. Identification of optimal locations of adaptive traffic signal control using heuristic
   methods. International Journal of Transportation Science and Technology 13, 122­136. URL: https://www.sciencedirect.
   com/science/article/pii/S2046043023001089, doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijtst.2023.12.003.

Alizadeh Shabestray, S., Abdulhai, B., 2019. Multimodal intelligent deep (mind) traffic signal controller, in: 2019 IEEE
   Intelligent Transportation Systems Conference (ITSC). IEEE, p. 4532­4539. doi:10.1109/ITSC.2019.8917493.

Barcel´o, J., Casas, J., 2005. Dynamic network simulation with aimsun, in: Simulation Approaches in Transportation Analysis.
   Springer, Boston, p. 57­98. doi:10.1007/0-387-24109-4_3.

Barman, S., Levin, M., 2023. Throughput properties and optimal locations for limited deployment of max-pressure controls.
   Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 150, 104105. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2023.104105.

Bayrak, M., Yu, Z., Gayah, V., 2023. A population-based incremental learning algorithm to identify optimal location of left-
   turn restrictions in urban grid networks. Transportmetrica B: Transport Dynamics 11, 528­547. doi:10.1080/21680566.
   2022.2102553.

Chen, X., Lin, X., Li, M., He, F., 2022. Network-level control of heterogeneous automated traffic guaranteeing bus priority.
   Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 140, 103671. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2022.103671.

Chen, Y.H., Cheng, Y., Chang, G.L., 2023. Incorporating bus delay minimization in design of signal progression for arterials
   accommodating heavy mixed-traffic flows. J Intell Transp Syst 27, 187­216. doi:10.1080/15472450.2021.2002149.

Christofa, E., Ampountolas, K., Skabardonis, A., 2016. Arterial traffic signal optimization: A person-based approach. Transp
   Res Part C Emerg Technol 66, 27­47. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2015.11.009.

Christofa, E., Papamichail, I., Skabardonis, A., 2013. Person-based traffic responsive signal control optimization. IEEE
   Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems 14, 1278­1289. doi:10.1109/TITS.2013.2259623.

Christofa, E., Skabardonis, A., 2011a. Traffic signal optimization with application of transit signal priority to an isolated
   intersection. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 2259, 192­201. doi:10.3141/
   2259-18.

Christofa, E., Skabardonis, A., 2011b. Traffic signal optimization with application of transit signal priority to an isolated
   intersection. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 2259, 192­201. doi:10.3141/
   2259-18.

Currie, G., Shalaby, A., 2008. Active transit signal priority for streetcars. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the
   Transportation Research Board 2042, 41­49. doi:10.3141/2042-05.

Ding, J., Yang, M., Wang, W., Xu, C., Bao, Y., 2015. Strategy for multiobjective transit signal priority with prediction
   of bus dwell time at stops. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 2488, 10­19.
   doi:10.3141/2488-02.

Dixit, V., Nair, D., Chand, S., Levin, M., 2020. A simple crowdsourced delay-based traffic signal control. PLoS One 15.
   doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0230598.

Ghanim, M., Abu-Lebdeh, G., 2015. Real-time dynamic transit signal priority optimization for coordinated traffic networks
   using genetic algorithms and artificial neural networks. J Intell Transp Syst 19, 327­338. doi:10.1080/15472450.2014.936292.

Gregoire, J., Frazzoli, E., Fortelle, A.L., Wongpiromsarn, T., 2014. Back-pressure traffic signal control with unknown routing
   rates. IFAC Proceedings Volumes 47, 11332­11337. doi:10.3182/20140824-6-ZA-1003.01585.

Gregoire, J., Qian, X., Frazzoli, E., Fortelle, A., Wongpiromsarn, T., 2015. Capacity-aware backpressure traffic signal control.
   IEEE Trans Control Netw Syst 2, 164­173. doi:10.1109/TCNS.2014.2378871.

Guo, G., Wang, Y., 2021. An integrated mpc and deep reinforcement learning approach to trams-priority active signal control.
   Control Eng Pract 110, 104758. doi:10.1016/j.conengprac.2021.104758.

Head, L., Gettman, D., Wei, Z., 2006. Decision model for priority control of traffic signals. Transportation Research Record:
   Journal of the Transportation Research Board 1978, 169­177. doi:10.1177/0361198106197800121.

Hu, J., Park, B., Lee, Y.J., 2015. Coordinated transit signal priority supporting transit progression under connected vehicle
   technology. Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 55, 393­408. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2014.12.005.

Hu, J., Park, B., Lee, Y.J., 2016. Transit signal priority accommodating conflicting requests under connected vehicles technology.
   Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 69, 173­192. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2016.06.001.

Hu, J., Zhang, Z., Feng, Y., Sun, Z., Li, X., Yang, X., 2022. Transit signal priority enabling connected and automated buses
   to cut through traffic. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems 23, 8782­8792. doi:10.1109/TITS.2021.
   3086110.

Knoop, V., Hoogendoorn, S., Lint, J., 2012. Routing strategies based on macroscopic fundamental diagram. Transportation
   Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 2315, 1­10. doi:10.3141/2315-01.

Kouvelas, A., Lioris, J., Fayazi, S., Varaiya, P., 2014. Maximum pressure controller for stabilizing queues in signalized arterial
   networks. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 2421, 133­141. doi:10.3141/
   2421-15.

Le, T., Kov´acs, P., Walton, N., Vu, H., Andrew, L., Hoogendoorn, S., 2015. Decentralized signal control for urban road
   networks. Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 58, 431­450. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2014.11.009.

Lee, W., Wang, H., 2022. A person-based adaptive traffic signal control method with cooperative transit signal priority. J Adv
   Transp URL: https://doi.org/10.1155/2022/2205292, doi:10.1155/2022/2205292.

Levin, M., 2023. Max-pressure traffic signal timing: A summary of methodological and experimental results. J Transp Eng A
   Syst 149. doi:10.1061/jtepbs.teeng-7578.

Levin, M., Hu, J., Odell, M., 2020. Max-pressure signal control with cyclical phase structure. Transp Res Part C Emerg
   Technol 120, 102828. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2020.102828.

                                                                     23
Li, J., Liu, Y., Yang, H., Chen, B., 2020. Bus priority signal control considering delays of passengers and pedestrians of adjacent
   intersections. J Adv Transp , 1­12doi:10.1155/2020/3935795.

Li, L., Jabari, S., 2019. Position weighted backpressure intersection control for urban networks. Transportation Research Part
   B: Methodological 128, 435­461. doi:10.1016/j.trb.2019.08.005.

Lin, Y., Yang, X., Zou, N., 2019. Passive transit signal priority for high transit demand: model formulation and strategy
   selection. Transportation Letters 11, 119­129. doi:10.1080/19427867.2017.1295899.

Lin, Y., Yang, X., Zou, N., Franz, M., 2015. Transit signal priority control at signalized intersections: a comprehensive review.
   Transportation Letters 7, 168­180. doi:10.1179/1942787514Y.0000000044.

Ling, K., Shalaby, A., 2004. Automated transit headway control via adaptive signal priority. J Adv Transp 38, 45­67.
   doi:10.1002/atr.5670380105.

Lioris, J., Kurzhanskiy, A., Varaiya, P., 2016. Adaptive max pressure control of network of signalized intersections. IFAC-
   PapersOnLine 49, 19­24. doi:10.1016/j.ifacol.2016.10.366.

Liu, H., Gayah, V.V., 2022. A novel max pressure algorithm based on traffic delay. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging
   Technologies 143, 103803.

Liu, H., Gayah, V.V., 2023. Total-delay-based max pressure: A max pressure algorithm considering delay equity. Transportation
   Research Record , 03611981221147051.

Long, M., Zou, X., Zhou, Y., Chung, E., 2022. Deep reinforcement learning for transit signal priority in a connected environment.
   Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 142, 103814. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2022.103814.

Ma, W., Head, K., Feng, Y., 2014. Integrated optimization of transit priority operation at isolated intersections: A person-
   capacity-based approach. Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 40, 49­62. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2013.12.011.

Ma, W., Liu, Y., Yang, X., 2013. A dynamic programming approach for optimal signal priority control upon multiple high-
   frequency bus requests. J Intell Transp Syst 17, 282­293. doi:10.1080/15472450.2012.729380.

Mazloumian, A., Geroliminis, N., Helbing, D., 2010. The spatial variability of vehicle densities as determinant of urban
   network capacity. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences 368,
   4627­4647. doi:10.1098/rsta.2010.0099.

Mercader, P., Uwayid, W., Haddad, J., 2020. Max-pressure traffic controller based on travel times: An experimental analysis.
   Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 110, 275­290. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2019.10.002.

Ortigosa, J., Gayah, V., Menendez, M., 2019. Analysis of one-way and two-way street configurations on urban grid networks.
   Transportmetrica B: Transport Dynamics 7, 61­81. doi:10.1080/21680566.2017.1337528.

Ortigosa, J., Menendez, M., 2014. Traffic performance on quasi-grid urban structures. Cities 36, 18­27. doi:10.1016/j.cities.
   2013.08.006.

Pumir, T., Anderson, L., Triantafyllos, D., Bayen, A., 2015. Stability of modified max pressure controller with application
   to signalized traffic networks, in: 2015 American Control Conference (ACC). IEEE, p. 1879­1886. doi:10.1109/ACC.2015.
   7171007.

Schrank, D., Eisele, B., Lomax, T., 2021. Urban mobility report .
Stephanedes, Y., Filippi, F., 1996. Transport priority in real-time traffic control systems, in: Applications of Advanced

   Technologies in Transportation Engineering: Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Applications of Advanced
   Technologies in Transportation Engineering, American Society of Civil Engineers. p. 71­75.
Tassiulas, L., Ephremides, A., 1990. Stability properties of constrained queueing systems and scheduling policies for maximum
   throughput in multihop radio networks, in: 29th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control. IEEE, p. 2130­2132. doi:10.
   1109/CDC.1990.204000.
Truong, L., Currie, G., Wallace, M., Gruyter, C., An, K., 2019. Coordinated transit signal priority model considering stochastic
   bus arrival time. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems 20. doi:10.1109/TITS.2018.2844199.
Varaiya, P., 2013. Max pressure control of a network of signalized intersections. Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 36, 177­195.
   doi:10.1016/j.trc.2013.08.014.
Vlachogiannis, D.M., Wei, H., Moura, S., Macfarlane, J., 2023. Humanlight: Incentivizing ridesharing via human-centric deep
   reinforcement learning in traffic signal control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03697 .
Wu, J., Ghosal, D., Zhang, M., Chuah, C.N., 2018. Delay-based traffic signal control for throughput optimality and fairness at
   an isolated intersection. IEEE Trans Veh Technol 67, 896­909. doi:10.1109/TVT.2017.2760820.
Wu, K., Guler, S., 2019. Estimating the impacts of transit signal priority on intersection operations: A moving bottleneck
   approach. Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 105, 346­358. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2019.06.003.
Wu, K., Lu, M., Guler, S., 2020. Modeling and optimizing bus transit priority along an arterial: A moving bottleneck approach.
   Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 121, 102873. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2020.102873.
Xiao, N., Frazzoli, E., Li, Y., Wang, Y., Wang, D., 2014. Pressure releasing policy in traffic signal control with finite queue
   capacities, in: 53rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control. IEEE, p. 6492­6497. doi:10.1109/CDC.2014.7040407.
Xu, T., Barman, S., Levin, M., Chen, R., Li, T., 2022. Integrating public transit signal priority into max-pressure signal
   control: Methodology and simulation study on a downtown network. Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 138. doi:10.1016/
   j.trc.2022.103614.
Yang, K., Menendez, M., Guler, S., 2019. Implementing transit signal priority in a connected vehicle environment with and
   without bus stops. Transportmetrica B: Transport Dynamics 7, 423­445. doi:10.1080/21680566.2018.1434019.
Yang, T., Fan, W., 2023. Evaluation of transit signal priority at signalized intersections under connected vehicle environment.
   Transportation Planning and Technology 46, 145­159. doi:10.1080/03081060.2023.2176308.
Yu, Z., Gayah, V., Christofa, E., 2017. Person-based optimization of signal timing. Transportation Research Record: Journal
   of the Transportation Research Board 2620, 31­42. doi:10.3141/2620-04.
Yu, Z., Gayah, V., Christofa, E., 2018. Implementing phase rotation in a person-based signal timing optimization framework,

                                                                     24
   in: 2018 21st International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC). IEEE, p. 20­25. doi:10.1109/ITSC.
   2018.8569671.
Zeng, X., Sun, X., Zhang, Y., Quadrifoglio, L., 2015. Person-based adaptive priority signal control with connected-vehicle
   information. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 2487, 78­87. doi:10.3141/
   2487-07.
Zeng, X., Zhang, Y., Jiao, J., Yin, K., 2021. Route-based transit signal priority using connected vehicle technology to promote
   bus schedule adherence. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems 22. doi:10.1109/TITS.2020.2963839.
Zhao, J., Ma, W., 2018. Optimizing vehicle and pedestrian trade-off using signal timing in intersections with center transit
   lanes. J Transp Eng A Syst 144. doi:10.1061/JTEPBS.0000145.
Zhao, J., Zhou, X., 2019. Improving the operational efficiency of buses with dynamic use of exclusive bus lane at isolated
   intersections. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems 20, 642­653. doi:10.1109/TITS.2018.2819243.

                                                                     25
