                                                   Journal of Transportation Technologies, 2023, 13, 327-352
                                                                                 https://www.scirp.org/journal/jtts
                                                                                              ISSN Online: 2160-0481
                                                                                                 ISSN Print: 2160-0473

Evaluation of Arterial Signal Coordination with
Commercial Connected Vehicle Data: Empirical
Traffic Flow Visualization and Performance
Measurement

Shoaib Mahmud, Christopher M. Day

Department of Civil Construction and Environmental Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, USA

How to cite this paper: Mahmud, S. and        Abstract
Day, C.M. (2023) Evaluation of Arterial Sig-
nal Coordination with Commercial Con-         Emerging connected vehicle (CV) data sets have recently become commer-
nected Vehicle Data: Empirical Traffic Flow   cially available, enabling analysts to develop a variety of powerful perfor-
Visualization and Performance Measure-        mance measures without deploying any field infrastructure. This paper
ment. Journal of Transportation Technolo-     presents several tools using CV data to evaluate traffic progression quality
gies, 13, 327-352.                            along a signalized corridor. These include both performance measures for
https://doi.org/10.4236/jtts.2023.133016      high-level analysis as well as visualizations to examine details of the coordi-
                                              nated operation. With the use of CV data, it is possible to assess not only the
Received: April 14, 2023                      movement of traffic on the corridor but also to consider its origin-destination
Accepted: May 30, 2023                        (O-D) path through the corridor. Results for the real-world operation of an
Published: June 2, 2023                       eight-intersection signalized arterial are presented. A series of high-level per-
                                              formance measures are used to evaluate overall performance by time of day,
Copyright © 2023 by author(s) and             with differing results by metric. Next, the details of the operation are ex-
Scientific Research Publishing Inc.           amined with the use of two visualization tools: a cyclic time-space diagram
This work is licensed under the Creative      (TSD) and an empirical platoon progression diagram (PPD). Comparing flow
Commons Attribution International             visualizations developed with different included O-D paths reveals several
License (CC BY 4.0).                          features, such as the presence of secondary and tertiary platoons on certain
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/   sections that cannot be seen when only end-to-end journeys are included. In
                                              addition, speed heat maps are generated, providing both speed performance
                    Open Access               along the corridor and locations and the extent of the queue. The proposed
                                              visualization tools portray the corridor's performance holistically instead of
                                              combining individual signal performance metrics. The techniques exhibited
                                              in this study are compelling for identifying locations where engineering solu-
                                              tions such as access management or timing plan change are required. The re-
                                              cent progress in infrastructure-free sensing technology has significantly in-
                                              creased the scope of CV data-based traffic management systems, enhancing

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016 Jun. 2, 2023    327  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                               the significance of this study. The study demonstrates the utility of CV tra-
                               jectory data for obtaining high-level details of the corridor performance as
                               well as drilling down into the minute specifics.

                               Keywords

                               Traffic Signal Performance Measures, Vehicle Trajectory Data, Connected
                               Vehicle Data

                               1. Introduction

                               Traffic signal coordination facilitates the smooth, progressive flow of vehicle
                               platoons along signalized corridors. Many arterial highways in the US are oper-
                               ated under actuated-coordinated control with time-of-day plans that implement
                               timing plans to establish a flow pattern appropriate to expected demands by the
                               time of day, such as the morning and afternoon peak hours, off-peak periods,
                               etc. Good progression reduces the delay for travelers on the routes prioritized by
                               coordination, which in many arterial highways is presumed to be the traffic that
                               is served by the major street through movements at each intersection.

                                  Vehicle trajectory data has been employed previously to develop performance
                               metrics on the operation of traffic signals and surface street networks to evaluate
                               progression [1]-[6]. Previous real-world studies used data sources available in-
                               ternally to commercial data providers. That data was often obtained from on-
                               board mobile devices, such as smartphones and navigation aids. In the past few
                               years, multiple commercial providers have begun to market disaggregate con-
                               nected vehicle (CV) data obtained from auto manufacturers and other original
                               equipment manufacturers (OEM) sources. Recent results from a pooled fund
                               study demonstrate the utility of such data in evaluating traffic signal operations
                               [7].

                                  The motivation for using commercialized CV data to assess operational per-
                               formance is increasing because it requires no field data collection infrastructure
                               [7] [8] [9] [10] [11]. Vehicle trajectory data makes it possible to obtain perfor-
                               mance measures at any location along a signalized corridor without detection
                               [12]. The increasing availability of trajectory data from commercial CV sources
                               enables a more accurate picture of corridor operations to be developed, which
                               may permit evaluation not only of the assumed dominant route along the corri-
                               dor but also of all other origin-destination (O-D) paths through the corridor
                               [13]. As such data emerges, there is an opportunity to develop new tools for vi-
                               sualization and evaluation to support decision-making. The present paper de-
                               monstrates some uses of CV data for this purpose and uses a signalized arterial
                               corridor in Dubuque, Iowa, as a case study. The objectives of the study are as
                               follows:
                                Develop delay and speed-based performance metrics utilizing CV based tra-

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  328  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                    S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                                   jectories;
                                Assess Origin-Destination (O-D) patterns through the network and generate

                                   visualizations that reveal signal operation using a cyclic view;
                                Evaluate queuing and other sources of inference with the traffic flow of the

                                   corridor.

                               2. Literature Review

                               Floating car studies have historically been used to evaluate progression along
                               signalized corridors. The introduction of GPS instruments improved the data
                               collection process but still required that the analyst drive the floating cars to col-
                               lect data. Such studies are labor and equipment-intensive. More recently, ad-
                               vances in technology have enabled alternatives, such as measuring travel times
                               using automated vehicle identification [14] [15], high-resolution traffic signal
                               event data [15] [16] [17] [18], and aggregated probe vehicle data [19] [20] [21]
                               [22] [23]. Automated traffic signal performance measures (ATSPMs) enabled by
                               high-resolution data include visualizations such as the Purdue Coordination Dia-
                               gram (PCD). The PCD shows each detected vehicle arrival relative to the local
                               green times. The presence of platoons and their arrival time relative to green in-
                               tervals can be quickly ascertained from these views, distilled into aggregated me-
                               trics, and can also support the optimization of offsets [24] [25] [26] [27] [28].
                               However, attaining the supporting data requires that setback detectors, data sto-
                               rage, and data collection equipment are available.

                                  In the past few years, CV trajectory data have become commercially available,
                               allowing researchers to grow infrastructure-free systems for developing perfor-
                               mance metrics for various intersection configurations at a scale. Data and ana-
                               lytics vendors such as INRIX, StreetLight Data, HERE, Wejo, Waze, and RITIS
                               have emerged in this space, forming partnerships with automakers and trans-
                               portation agencies to harness data from connected vehicles and allowing users to
                               analyze traffic flow, including travel time, speeds, and O-D patterns [29]-[34]. A
                               significant number of current efforts regarding the performance evaluation of
                               signalized intersections and corridors focus on developing traditional metrics
                               using CV trajectory data.

                                  Some recently developed vehicle trajectory-based performance metrics for in-
                               dividual signals include average trip time and average delay [7] [11] [35]-[42],
                               trip counts by vehicle class [31], arrival on green (AOG) [7] [11] [12] [21] [22]
                               [23], split failures [7] [11] [23] [40] [41] [42], and downstream blockage [11]
                               [40] [41] [42]. Aggregation of individual signal performance along the corridor
                               is used in this study to generate corridor-wide performance metrics. In addition
                               to CV trajectory datasets, researchers have started to analyze CV event data,
                               such as hard braking and acceleration data, to evaluate the offline or near real-
                               time safety warrants at scale [43] [44] [45] [46]. Moving forward, as the geo-
                               graphic extent and sample size of the CV dataset increase, data applications for
                               system management may shift significantly toward the use of CV data.

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  329  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day           3. Data Description and Study Corridor
DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016
                               3.1. Review of Data Sources

                               For this study, CV trajectory data were obtained from a commercial vendor. The
                               data consists of vehicle waypoint records, including a journey ID, timestamp,
                               vehicle position (latitude and longitude), speed as measured by the vehicle, and
                               other information. These records are able to track the movement of vehicles
                               throughout the network, with a journey beginning when the vehicle ignition is
                               turned on and ending when the vehicle is turned off. The waypoints are general-
                               ly provided once every 3 seconds.

                                  In this study, a commercial cloud-based server (Amazon Athena) served as
                               the main data repository, which supports SQL-like queries for data processing
                               and retrieval. The CV data were spatially partitioned using county borders and
                               indexed with postal codes. Raw data for the area of interest were exported from
                               the cloud server in CSV format. The data were then processed using R to devel-
                               op the visualizations and derivative performance measures presented in this
                               study. In the future, the techniques could be implemented on the server side.

                                  Commercial providers obtain the data by leveraging partnerships with auto-
                               makers to track vehicles. The dataset follows vehicles as they move through the
                               road network, as well as off the road network. It is necessary to carefully select
                               the data to remove irrelevant or potentially misleading information, such as
                               records of vehicles sitting idly in parking lots, clipping the area of interest, tra-
                               versing the corridor multiple times in the same journey, and so forth. Also, some
                               journeys in the raw data have missing waypoints (i.e., longer than the expected
                               interval between waypoints).

                                  For this study, a large bounding box was initially drawn around the selected
                               corridor (US 20 in Dubuque, Iowa), which captured approximately 90,000 jour-
                               neys, including 10.3 million GPS waypoints over twenty weekdays in October
                               2021. Later, geofences were created surrounding the corridor and portions of the
                               side streets. Most of the irrelevant waypoints were removed by the application of
                               the geofences. Next, journeys with fewer than five waypoints and journeys with
                               waypoints more than ten seconds apart were removed. After these processes, the
                               data contained 53,656 unique vehicle journeys containing approximately 3.9
                               million waypoints over a four-week period. Figure 1 shows an illustration of raw
                               vehicle waypoints for the larger bounding box and vehicle waypoints for the cor-
                               ridor and the side streets of the signals for 24 hours.

                                  Next, a map-matching process was undertaken to convert the latitude and
                               longitude data into linear distances along the corridor. First, we determined the
                               origin-destination of each journey using geofences of the entry-exit locations of
                               the corridors and side streets. Each waypoint was then "snapped" to a road seg-
                               ment using the closest distance between the waypoint and the segment. Because
                               of the simplicity of the study corridor, a relatively simple map-matching process
                               was sufficient. Future work will integrate more sophisticated techniques to ge-
                               neralize to larger-scale networks, most likely by utilizing a directed graph struc-
                               ture [47] [48] [49].

                               330  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                    S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                               Figure 1. Maps of the study corridor and vehicle waypoints for 24 hours (October 4,
                               2021): (a) corridor location and the intersections; (b) all vehicle waypoints for the larger
                               bounding box surrounding the study corridor (454,331 waypoints); (c) vehicle waypoints
                               only for the corridors and the approaches of the side streets (137,215 waypoints).

                                  After map matching, it was possible to determine the penetration rate. It was
                               found to be approximately 3% - 6% of the annual average daily traffic (AADT).
                               The low penetration rate was mitigated by the aggregation of data across mul-
                               tiple days of data, as demonstrated in previous studies [12].

                                  In addition to trajectory data, the signal timing plan was obtained from the
                               City of Dubuque. The weekday day plan on US 20 is as follows:
                                Early morning, 06:30-08:00, Cycle Length = 109 sec;
                                Morning peak, 08:00-10:30, Cycle Length = 103 sec;
                                Midday, 10:30-14:30, Cycle Length = 115 sec;
                                Afternoon peak, 14:30-18:00, Cycle Length = 130 sec;
                                Evening, 18:00-22:00, Cycle Length = 103 sec.

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  331  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                                  Signal systems running under time of day coordination often operate the same
                               timing plan on all weekdays. US 20 in Dubuque runs under such a scheme. This
                               makes it possible to aggregate multiple days of data to increase the number of
                               samples, while still capturing patterns that are consistent from day to day, as
                               demonstrated in previous work on probe data performance measures with small
                               sample sizes of automatic vehicle identification data [50] and detector-free offset
                               optimization [12]. This paper adopts a similar strategy to increase the number of
                               observations. This strategy relies on the similarity of operations from day to day.

                               3.2. Corridor Description and Origin Destination Patterns

                               A 2.6-mile east-west section of US 20 in Dubuque, Iowa, was selected for analy-
                               sis. The corridor contains eight signalized intersections and is one of the busiest
                               roads in that region. To understand the traffic patterns occurring on the corri-
                               dor, an analysis of journeys by origin and destination was carried out. The data
                               processing method described in the previous section resulted in every journey
                               being associated with a particular origin and destination, making it simple to
                               perform this analysis. Origins and destinations for the test corridor are shown in
                               Figure 2(a), while Figure 2(b) shows an O-D matrix color coded to highlight
                               the more dominant movements.

                               Figure 2. US-20 and trip count summary: (a) US-20 in Dubuque, IA with origins, desti-
                               nations, and intersection IDs; (b) Journey count heatmap by origin-destinations with tra-
                               jectory data.

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  332  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                                                            S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                                  We limited possible origins and destinations to roads entering or exiting the
                               corridor and excluded driveways along the route. The O-D matrix shows that
                               although the largest volumes are for those paths traversing the corridor end-to-
                               end (1E-8W and 8W-1E), Cedar Cross Rd (Int. 3) and NW Arterial (Int. 7) also
                               attract and generate a substantial of traffic, with their numbers of originating or
                               terminating journeys approximately 1/2 to 2/3 of that of the corridor endpoints.

                               4. Methodology

                               4.1. Delay-Based Performance Measures

                               Travel time and delay are perhaps the most common performance measures for

                               evaluating vehicle travel in traffic signal systems. Delay is used for intersection

                               Level of Service (LOS) evaluations in the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM). For

                               the assessment of corridor performance, the HCM LOS uses the ratio of esti-

                               mated travel time to free flow travel time [51]. Such an analysis would typically

                               only consider travel along the major through directions of the corridor. Histori-

                               cally it has been challenging to collect data for even those paths, let alone all of

                               the others. However, as previous results have illustrated, many different O-D

                               paths on a corridor may substantially affect its operation. Recent studies have

                               shown that better consideration of O-D patterns can yield substantial improve-

                               ments in signal timing [13]. A fundamental problem with comparing delay or

                               travel time for different O-D paths is that each path has a different free flow tra-

                               vel time, depending on the distance and free flow speeds. One approach to re-

                               solving this is by normalizing the travel time, while another is by calculating de-

                               lay.

                               Two possible normalized metrics are the travel rate and the travel time index

                               (ratio of actual to ideal travel time). The travel rate ri experienced by vehicle i
                               is defined as

                                               ri  =                 ti                                     (1)
                                                                     D

                               where ti is the observed travel time and D is the distance traveled.

                               The travel time index Ti is defined as

                                               Ti                    =  ti                                  (2)
                                                                        tf

                               where ti is the observed travel time, and t f is the free flow travel time.

                               Delay di for vehicle i is defined as

                                               di= ti - t f                                                 (3)

                               where ti is the observed travel time and t f is the free flow travel time. In Eq-
                               uations (2) and (3), the speed limit is used as free flow speed for simplicity and
                               to avoid potentially specifying an ideal travel time that may require exceeding
                               the speed limit.

                               4.2. Smoothness of the Flow of the Traffic
                               Travel time and delay are single values that describe overall performance but re-

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016        333                                    Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day           veal little about what occurs during the journey. As explored in a previous study,
DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016
                               similar travel times can result from few stops or many stops. In the past, some

                               have tried to capture the influence of stops by adding "stop penalties" to convert

                               stops into an equivalent travel time [3]. However, this necessitates defining what

                               a "stop" is, and it is somewhat a matter of opinion whether a vehicle that avoids

                               stopping by approaching an intersection slowly fares better than a vehicle that

                               pulls up and stops, at least from the viewpoint of the driver.

                               In anticipation of widespread trajectory data in the future, Beak et al. [52]

                               proposed a metric called the Smoothness of the Flow of Traffic (SOFT), which

                               quantifies the platoon progression along a corridor incorporating all of the speed

                               changes encountered by the vehicle as it traverses the corridor. The authors ap-

                               plied a fast Fourier transform of the frequency content of the speed data for

                               each trajectory, yielding a score that tends to decrease as the trajectory shifts

                               away from an ideal straight-line shape. SOFT is scaled from 0 - 100, with 100

                               representing ideal progression and lower values indicating poorer performance.

                               Beak defined SOFT for a vehicle i as [53]

                                                                                          N -1   Pki  2            (4)
                                                       SOFT (i) = 100 × 1-                       P0k     
                                                                                                         
                                                                                          k =1           

                               where  Pki  =  X  i  2  , which is given by the discrete Fourier transform (33):
                                                 k

                                           = X ki       1   si  (  nT0  )  exp    -2knjt              0,1,  ,N -1  (5)
                                                                                     T0   =  for k
                                                                                          

                                                       n=0

                                 In the above, si (nT0 ) is the speed of vehicle i at measurement nT0 , where n

                               is the measurement number and T0 is the interval between measurements.
                               Further information about the physical interpretation of SOFT is given by Beak

                               [53]. The resulting performance measure ranges from 0 to 100, with 100

                               representing an ideal trajectory shape and lower values having an increasing

                               amount of perturbations.

                               Figure 3 shows example calculations of SOFT for two trajectories, illustrated

                               using a time-space diagram and a speed-time diagram. Figure 3(a) shows the

                               trajectory of a vehicle that stops once, with a high SOFT value, while Figure 3(b)

                               shows a vehicle that stops multiple times and has a much lower SOFT value.

                               The preceding metrics are calculated for each individual vehicle trajectory,

                               which permits the development of distributions and aggregated values for addi-

                               tional assessment. For delay, we can simply take the total delay recorded by all

                               vehicles on all the O-D paths to be included in the analysis:

                                                                          X=         1    d n j                    (6)
                                                                                jZ   nj          
                                                                                          i=1 i

                                 Here nj is the number of observations for OD path j, and the summation is
                               carried out for all the O-D paths in set Z. Sets of O-D paths could be selected to
                               include only routes in one direction or only end-to-end movements and other
                               combinations desired by the analyst. For the other performance measures, we
                               take the weighted average:

                                                       334                                Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                                                 S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

Figure 3. Trajectory and speed profile: (a) a vehicle experiencing few stops and slowdowns; (b) a vehicle that
experiencing many stops and slowdowns.

                                     wjxj  wj  jZ1   nj    xi  
                                                 nj  i =1      
                                    j= Z                       
                               =X                                (7)
                                     wj         wj

                                    jZ         jZ

                                 Here, X is the final aggregate performance measure, wj is a weight value for
                               O-D path j, xj is the average for O-D path j, nj is the number of observations
                               for O-D path j, and xi is the ith observation. The weight value used for each
                               O-D path was the number of journeys observed on that path during the period
                               of interest.

                               4.3. Corridor Level Performance Visualization

                               In addition to quantitative performance measures, spatiotemporal visualizations
                               are useful for transportation agencies to assess the system-level operation and to
                               discover the locations of problems and their nature. A time-space diagram
                               (TSD) is one option and is particularly useful for viewing vehicle trajectories.
                               Another visualization that may be particularly useful is the "platoon progression
                               diagram" (PPD) proposed in 1984 by Wallace and Courage [54]. Historically in
                               practice, such diagrams have only been available using the signal timing data

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  335             Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day           with modeled traffic flows, which may vary from the real traffic flow because of
DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016
                               variations in the volume and actuation. This study uses CV data to demonstrate

                               the construction of empirical, cyclic TSDs and PPDs.

                               The PPD is similar in concept to cyclic flow profiles, which were employed in

                               the seminal work on flow-based optimization of traffic signal offsets [55], nota-

                               bly in the widely used signal timing software TRANSYT [56]. The PPD is an ex-

                               tension of the flow profile into a spatial dimension. The PPD is available as a vi-

                               sualization in more recent UK versions of TRANSYT and in the software Tru-

                               Traffic. Since the PPD considers a spatial dimension, it could also potentially be

                               regarded as a cyclic flow and density diagram.

                               In this paper, to deal with the relatively low sample rate, the TSD, and PPD

                               are presented as cyclic aggregations, which require that time of day be trans-

                               formed to time in the cycle. The principle behind this is derived from how most

                               signal controllers determine their local cycle time during coordination. For any

                               given timestamp, the time of day t can be stated in terms of the number of

                               seconds after a daily reference point. Most controllers use midnight as their de-

                               fault daily reference point. The time in the cycle for an event occurring at t oc-

                               curs at the following time in cycle ()

                                     = t mod C                                       (8)

                               where C is the cycle length (s) in effect at time t (s) after midnight.
                                  In graphical terms, the above transformation effectively truncates our TSD

                               when the time axis reaches C, and causes the trajectories to "wrap around" to the
                               other side. The distance axis does not change. Whereas the resulting visualiza-
                               tion no longer represents the condition of any particular cycle, the overlay of
                               many trajectories in this view offers a useful way to assess locations where ve-
                               hicles stop and slow down as they traverse the corridor. Furthermore, it is possi-
                               ble to select which O-D paths are included in the diagrams: only vehicles travel-
                               ing from end to end, or those that only partially traverse the corridor.

                                  An empirical PPD can show similar data as two-dimensional distributions ra-
                               ther than overlaid trajectories. In a PPD, the number of vehicles observed can be
                               visualized as a two-dimensional bin in a discretized time-space field, becoming a
                               pixel in the overall diagram. To create an empirical PPD, we begin by choosing
                               time interval t and space interval x to discretize the relevant axes. For this
                               study, we used 1-second bins for t and 100 ft divisions for x. Exploiting these
                               divisions, it is possible to locate the address of any pixel in (x, t) coordinates

                               wher= e t [0,C -1] and x = [0, Nx ] , where Nx is the number of spatial divi-

                               sions given by

                                    Nx  =                              floor  L      (9)
                                                                               x 

                                  The "floor" function used above deletes the non-integer portion of the con-
                               tained elements.

                                  Figure 4 illustrates the construction of the basic elements of the cyclic TSD
                               and the empirical PPD. Figure 4(a) shows two diagrams in which the trajectories

                               336                                            Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                                                                                                   S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                               are transformed from "real-time scale" to "time in the cycle scale" using Equa-
                               tion (8). The method utilized in earlier studies for generating a cyclic arrival
                               profile or creating a cyclic time-space diagram involves aggregating trajectories
                               with a low sampling rate [12] [55] [57]. The incorrect cycle length has been used
                               in the left side figure, and the data are overlaid with no clear pattern. This pur-
                               posefully illustrates the effect of even the slightest error in cycle length. The
                               right-side figure uses the correct cycle length, and cyclic flow patterns become
                               apparent. Vehicles tend to stop at the first intersection, many of them stop at the
                               second, and there are significant new vehicles entering the corridor after the
                               second intersection. One can visually traverse the intersection and characterize
                               patterns in traffic flow. Figure 4(b) shows the further transformation of a few
                               trajectories into the type of data representation for the PPD. Three trajectories
                               are initially shown in a discretized time-space field. Next, for each pixel in that
                               field, we count the number of trajectories that make an appearance within the
                               relevant temporal and spatial divisions and then color the pixel in proportion to
                               the total count.

Figure 4. Development of empirical platoon progression diagram: (a) projection of trajectories into one representative cycle with
incorrect cycle length vs correct cycle length; (b) converting time-space diagram to platoon progression diagram.

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  337  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day              CV data enables these visualizations to go further than previous iterations of
DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  the TSD and PPD since the O-D path associated with each trajectory is known.
                               Each of these visualizations can be done for any given O-D path in the network
                               and for selected O-D paths inside of that particular view. These visualizations
                               permit the analyst to "drill down" from high-level aggregate values of the type
                               described in the previous section to examine the details of the operation.

                               4.4. Corridor Level Speed Heat Map and Queue Visualization

                               The presence of queues and other sources of interference with traffic flows are

                               important to manage traffic signal timing in corridors. To examine queuing and

                               other disruptions, we propose a speed heat map that illustrates where such

                               events occur and how prevalent they are throughout a typical day. For the speed

                               heat map, we use 1-hour bins for t and the previously defined 100 ft divisions

                               for x. Now, for any pixel in (x, t) coordinates, where t = [0, 23] and x = [0, Nx ]

                               the average of the measured speed of all vehicle waypoints in that cell can be

                               given by st,x

                                                           nt , x

                                                            st,x

                                                   st,x =  0                               (10)

                                                           nt , x

                               where nt,x is the number of observations in the pixel.
                                  When traffic is queued, the average speed associated with a pixel should be

                               much lower compared to the pixels with normal traffic conditions. The queued
                               state can be identified by choosing a speed threshold. Several ways exist to select
                               a speed threshold; however, the speed limit and free flow speed have often been
                               used as a reference [58] [59]. In the present study, the posted speed limit along
                               the corridor is 45 mph. We selected 35 mph speed as the threshold for indicating
                               queued conditions and color-coded the graphics accordingly.

                               5. Results and Discussion

                               Using the emerging CV-based trajectory datasets, performance metrics were de-
                               veloped to assess the quality of traffic progression. These include total delay,
                               travel rate, travel time index, and SOFT, which collectively provide a compre-
                               hensive overview of corridor performance (Figure 5). Additionally, three visua-
                               lizations were introduced--cyclic time-space diagram (TSD) (Figure 6), empir-
                               ical platoon progression diagram (PPD) (Figure 7 and Figure 8), and corridor
                               speed heat maps (Figure 9)--to examine both high-level trends and intricate
                               details of corridor performance. The performance metrics generated are ex-
                               amined and discussed, with an emphasis on interpreting the outcomes and deli-
                               neating various facets of the resulting visualizations.

                               5.1. Travel Time and Delay-Based Performance Metrics
                               The weighted average method described in Equation (7) was used to combine

                                              338                  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                    S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

Figure 5. Comparison of the performance measure metrics: (a) composite delay for all routes; (b) composite delay for end-to-end
journeys; (c) average travel rate for all routes; (d) average travel rate for end-to-end journeys; (e) average SOFT for all routes; (f)
average SOFT for end-to-end journeys; (g) unique journey IDs per hour for all routes; (h) unique end-to-end journey IDs.

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  339  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

Figure 6. Cyclic TSDs for end-to-end vehicle trajectories: (a) eastbound/morning peak; (b) eastbound/afternoon peak; (c) west-
bound/morning peak; (d) westbound/afternoon peak.

                               the values of the quantitative performance measures presented earlier. This was
                               done for each time of day plan. The outcomes of this process are illustrated in
                               Figure 5. Some selected observations are made below:

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  340  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                    S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

Figure 7. Empirical PPDs during the morning peak: (a) eastbound, end-to-end journeys; (b) eastbound, all journeys; (c) west-
bound, end-to-end journeys; (d) westbound, all journeys.

                                For total delay, when considering all journeys (Figure 5(a)), westbound/ af-
                                   ternoon peak exhibits the worst performance, followed by eastbound/ mid-
                                   day. For end-to-end journeys (Figure 5(b)), the eastbound direction appears
                                   worse during both times of day. Comparing Figure 5(b) with Figure 5(a)
                                   shows that the total delay incurred by end-to-end journeys is much smaller
                                   than that of all journeys. The evening has the least delay, which is attributable
                                   to lower traffic volume during that time period. Unexpectedly, the total delay

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  341  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

Figure 8. Empirical platoon progression diagrams during afternoon peak: (a) eastbound, end-to-end journeys; (b) eastbound, all
journeys; (c) westbound, end-to-end journeys; (d) westbound, all journeys.

                               for all journeys is higher for eastbound/early morning than in the same di-
                               rection for the morning peak. This is likely because the travel demand in the
                               eastbound early morning is similar to the morning peak (Figure 5(g), Figure
                               5(h)), yet a different timing plan is in effect, which may not serve the east-
                               bound traffic as well as the morning peak timing plan.

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  342  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                                                                              S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

Figure 9. Speed heat maps by hour: (a) eastbound, all journeys; (b) westbound, all journeys.

                                The average travel rate (Figure 5(c) and Figure 5(d)) shows rather similar
                                   results as delay for identifying the worst time periods. The average travel
                                   time index had very similar results and is not included here. The average tra-
                                   vel rate is slightly lower for end-to-end journeys, as would be expected since
                                   they are prioritized by the signal timing. Interestingly, the performance of the
                                   evening peak does not look as good using this metric. Although the total de-
                                   lay is lower because volumes are lower, the travel rate is comparable to other
                                   times of the day.

                                The average SOFT value is shown in Figure 5(e) and Figure 5(f), respec-
                                   tively, for all journeys and end-to-end journeys. Lower values correspond to
                                   worse performance. These metrics show that eastbound/midday has the
                                   worst performance, followed by westbound/afternoon peak. The SOFT values
                                   experienced by end-to-end trips are higher, which again would be expected
                                   since this is the prioritized path. Drivers traversing the entire corridor also
                                   seem to fare worst on eastbound/midday, whereas in the afternoon peak, the
                                   two directions are about the same.
                                  In summary, different performance measures offer different perspectives on

                               corridor performance. The use of multiple performance measures helps reveal a
                               more complete picture of what is occurring in the corridor. The total delay helps
                               reveal the magnitude of the cost to drivers, while average travel rate and SOFT
                               are able to show the relative performance across time periods when volumes are
                               different.

                               5.2. Visualization of Corridor Performance

                               The aggregated performance measures offer a high-level view of the quality of

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  343  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day           progression. Visualizations of traffic flow can be used to understand better why a
DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  particular direction is performing well or poorly during a particular time of day.
                               Using the processes described earlier, the vehicle trajectories were converted into
                               cyclic TSDs and empirical PPDs. For illustrative purposes, two times of day are
                               selected for a closer look: the morning peak, which tended to exhibit better per-
                               formance in Figure 5, and the afternoon peak, which tended to exhibit worse
                               performance.

                                  Figure 6 shows cyclic TSDs for CVs traversing the entire corridor, which are
                               easier to visualize at this scale than those containing all the journeys. In the latter
                               case, the diagrams quickly become overwhelmed by trajectory lines, making pat-
                               terns harder to identify. These figures are constructed to show two cycles next to
                               each other to facilitate visualization. However, "Cycle 2" is a repeat "Cycle 1"
                               image.

                                  In Figure 5, for end-to-end journeys, during the afternoon peak, the west-
                               bound direction exhibited better performance than the eastbound direction,
                               having a lower total delay (Figure 5(b)), a lower travel rate (Figure 5(d)), and a
                               higher value of SOFT (Figure 5(f)), even though when all journeys were consi-
                               dered, the westbound direction ultimately had a higher delay (Figure 5(a)) and
                               lower SOFT (Figure 5(e)). Similarly, the westbound direction tended to perform
                               better for the morning peak than the eastbound direction.

                                  These trends are also reflected in the cyclic TSDs (Figure 6). For the east-
                               bound direction, in the morning peak (Figure 6(a)), the leading edge of the pla-
                               toon is halted at N Cress Ridge (callout #1), Wacker Dr (#2), and experiences a
                               long stop at Kennedy (#3), after which it is able to pass through the remaining
                               intersections relatively easily (#4). In the afternoon peak (Figure 6(b)), there are
                               more and longer stops and evidence of long queues. Evidence of queuing may be
                               seen on the approach to NW Arterial (#5), Cress Ridge (#6), and the segment
                               between Kennedy and Wacker nearly approaches spillback conditions (#7). The
                               width of the platoon between Kennedy and University is very small (#8), illu-
                               strating that the green time in this direction is likely too short for the demand.
                               The tail end of this platoon is cut off at University Ave (#9).

                                  In contrast, the westbound direction performs relatively well in the morning
                               peak (Figure 6(c)), although the end of the platoon is cut off at Kennedy (#10)
                               and at Century (#11), and one rather long stop takes place at NW Arterial (#12).
                               In the afternoon (Figure 6(d)), the platoon has a greater chance of being inter-
                               rupted at certain points along the way, such as between University and Kennedy
                               (#13), likely because of other traffic. Traffic is also stopped again at NW Arterial
                               (#14). However, overall, the quality of progression is better than the other direc-
                               tion.

                                  While these visualizations are useful, some of the trends are difficult to under-
                               stand without seeing other traffic besides the end-to-end journeys. The addition
                               of the other journeys to the diagram might provide further insight, but as men-
                               tioned earlier, these may inundate the diagrams with data and make it difficult

                               344  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                    S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                               to view individual trends. One option would be to select a smaller time period to
                               visualize, while another is to employ the empirical PPD to show the same data in
                               the form of cyclic distributions.

                                  Figure 7 and Figure 8 show empirical PPDs for the morning peak and even-
                               ing peak, respectively. For each direction, two PPDs are prepared: one for all ve-
                               hicles and one for end-to-end vehicles only. Both diagrams use a color scale that
                               shows the number of observations associated with each pixel. The redder the
                               pixel, the greater the concentration of observations, meaning that there is higher
                               flow over time in that area and greater density in that space during that time.
                               Blue areas represent light traffic, and white shows where no CVs were counted.
                               The intermediate colors, mostly yellow, tend to show platoons. These diagrams
                               illustrate the size, number, relative strength, and dispersion of platoons as they
                               move through the corridor. Queuing is also evident, shown by greater concen-
                               trations of vehicles in regions close to an intersection, transforming from di-
                               agonal motion to horizontal stopping. These areas tend to exhibit the heaviest
                               concentration of observations.

                                  For the morning peak, the end-to-end journey PPDs (Figure 7(a) and Figure
                               7(c)) exhibit similar trends as seen in Figure 6, which is not surprising since
                               they use the same data. Overall, the westbound direction (Figure 7(c)) appears
                               to perform better than the eastbound direction (Figure 7(a)). The addition of
                               the other traffic (Figure 7(b) and Figure 7(d)) presents a slightly different pic-
                               ture, however. When all journeys are included in the PPD, we can see that most
                               of the westbound intersections exhibit some queueing (Figure 7(d)), and the
                               performance starts to look rather similar to the eastbound direction (Figure
                               7(b)). The two PPDs do not appear to differ substantially from each other as
                               much as when only end-to-end journeys were included. In addition, some new
                               features appear that were not visible before. In the eastbound direction, a sec-
                               ondary platoon appears between Kennedy and University (callout #15), while in
                               the westbound direction, several secondary platoons are evident on several seg-
                               ments, such as between University and Kennedy (#16), and on the next link
                               (#17), and so on.

                                  The end-to-end journey PPDs for the afternoon peak (Figure 8(a) and Figure
                               8(c)) again show similar trends as the cyclic TSDs. The addition of the other
                               journeys (Figure 8(b) and Figure 8(d)) increases the amount of data considera-
                               bly for this time of day, and the two directions of travel again show less different
                               from each other. Here, we can also see features emerge when all journeys are in-
                               cluded in the PPD. Small secondary and tertiary platoons seem to be visible be-
                               tween Cress Ridge and Century (#18 and #19) in the eastbound direction. The
                               link between Kennedy and University appears empty when looking only at
                               end-to-end journeys (#20) but appears moderately busy when the other traffic is
                               included (#21). In the westbound direction, a secondary platoon becomes visible
                               between Century and Cress Ridge (#22), and the apparent empty space between
                               NW Arterial and US 20 (#23) becomes full (#24).

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  345  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day           5.3. Hourly Corridor Level Performance
DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016
                               The speed heat map visualizes the average speed for each subsegment along the
                               corridor, enabling the analyst to observe locations and times of day where
                               queuing and other sources of interference with traffic flow occur. Figure 9(a)
                               and Figure 9(b) show the average hourly speed values for the eastbound and
                               westbound directions, respectively, for all journeys. The color scales associated
                               with this diagram indicate the average speed values computed for each 100-foot-
                               long cell using Equation (10). Lower average speed is shown by a redder colora-
                               tion, while faster speeds are greener. As previously identified in cyclic TSDs and
                               PPDs (Figure 7 and Figure 8), the westbound direction (Figure 9(b)) exhibits
                               better performance than the eastbound direction (Figure 9(a)). However, these
                               figures reveal some additional details. Figure 9(a) shows that the corridor expe-
                               riences the most queuing in the eastbound direction between 11 AM and 2 PM,
                               as shown by the greater extent of slow speeds extending from University Avenue
                               to Century Drive. In contrast, in the westbound direction, the greatest extent of
                               queuing occurs between 2 PM and 5 PM between JFK and University Avenue.
                               While the present study aggregated one month of weekday trajectory data, ana-
                               lysts could potentially adjust the data selection parameters to focus on a particu-
                               lar day of the week. In the future, as sample rates increase, it will likely become
                               more feasible to examine a specific day or view the performance in near real-
                               time.

                               6. Summary of Findings, Conclusion, and Future Work

                               This paper introduces a series of tools that utilize connected vehicle (CV) data to
                               evaluate and visualize the performance of signalized arterial corridors, using the
                               US 20 corridor in Dubuque, Iowa, as a case study. CV data was procured and
                               processed to transform latitude/longitude coordinates into relative linear dis-
                               tances along road segments. An origin-destination (O-D) analysis was con-
                               ducted to determine traffic flow patterns between entry and exit points (exclud-
                               ing driveways). A series of CV trajectory-based performance measures were then
                               proposed for evaluating the quality of progression, including total delay, travel
                               rate, travel time index, and SOFT. SOFT is the most recently proposed metric
                               and is based on a Fourier transform of speed measurements to understand the
                               degree to which the vehicle speeds are disturbed. Next, three visualizations were
                               proposed to allow an analyst to see details of the performance: a cyclic time-
                               space diagram (TSD), an empirical platoon progression diagram (PPD), and
                               corridor speed heat maps. Results were shown for US 20 using data from week-
                               days in October 2021.

                                  The key findings are that the high-level performance measures showed differ-
                               ing pictures depending on whether only end-to-end journeys were included or
                               all journeys. In some cases, one direction of travel would appear better than the
                               other depending on which O-D paths were included, for example. Visualizations
                               using the TSD and PPD offered more detail. The TSDs revealed a great deal of

                               346  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                    S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                               information about the major street through traffic.
                                  The PPDs were able to show the same overall trends but also supported the

                               addition of other O-D paths, which revealed new features not visible when con-
                               sidering only major streets through traffic. The speed heat map provides an ad-
                               ditional view of average speeds by hour and location, showing the extent of
                               queues and other sources of inference with traffic flow. Altogether, the visualiza-
                               tions offer a way to understand why certain times of day perform better or worse
                               than others.

                                  This study presented performance metrics and visualization tools which con-
                               sider CV trajectories traversing the corridor rather than aggregating or stacking
                               individual signals' performance metrics. These visualizations could be used to
                               identify locations where engineering solutions such as timing plan adjustments,
                               geometric improvements, or access management may be desirable and to eva-
                               luate the outcomes. Whereas many of the current methods in ATSPM systems,
                               for example, are focused on each intersection as a basic spatial unit, trajectory
                               data can expand the spatial dimension to explore traffic behavior on segments
                               with an unprecedented level of detail.

                                  The rapid progress in infrastructure-free sensing technology has significantly
                               broadened the scope of CV trajectory-based traffic management and monitoring
                               systems, thereby enhancing the significance of this study. Future work will at-
                               tempt to infer signal timing from the CV trajectory data, introduce information
                               about the signal timing into the TSD and PPD visualizations, and improve on
                               previous methods of offset optimization by better considering the spatial dimen-
                               sion of the problem.

                               Acknowledgements

                               This work was supported in part by the Iowa Department of Transportation. CV
                               data used in this study were obtained from Wejo, Ltd. The contents of this ma-
                               nuscript represent the views of the authors, who are responsible for the facts and
                               the correctness of the data presented herein, and do not necessarily reflect the
                               official views or policies of any organizations.

                               Conflicts of Interest

                               The authors declare no conflicts of interest regarding the publication of this pa-
                               per.

                               References

                               [1] Hofleitner, A., Herring, R. and Bayen, A. (2012) Arterial Travel Time Forecast with
                                      Streaming Data: A Hybrid Approach of Flow Modeling and Machine Learning.
                                     Transportation Research Part B: Methodological, 46, 1097-1122.
                                      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trb.2012.03.006

                               [2] Wünsch, G., Bölling, F., von Dobschütz, A. and Mieth, P. (2015) Bavarian Road
                                      Administration's Use of Probe Data for Large-Scale Traffic Signal Evaluation Sup-
                                     port. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  347  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day                  Board, 2487, 88-95. https://doi.org/10.3141/2487-08
DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016
                                [3] Day, C.M. (2019) Trajectory-Based Performance Measures for Interrupted-Flow
                                      Facilities. Transportation Research Procedia, 41, 745-749.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trpro.2019.09.123

                                [4] Argote, J., Christofa, E., Xuan, Y. and Skabardonis, A. (2011) Estimation of Meas-
                                      ures of Effectiveness Based on Connected Vehicle Data. 2011 14th International
                                      IEEE Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), Washington DC,
                                       5-7 October 2011, 1767-1772. https://doi.org/10.1109/ITSC.2011.6083020

                                [5] Christofa, E., Argote, J. and Skabardonis, A. (2013) Arterial Queue Spillback Detec-
                                      tion and Signal Control Based on Connected Vehicle Technology. Transportation
                                      Research Record, 2366, 61-70. https://doi.org/10.3141/2356-08

                                [6] Herrera, J.C., Work, D.B., Herring, R., Ban, X.J., Jacobson, Q. and Bayen, A.M.
                                       (2010) Evaluation of Traffic Data Obtained via GPS-Enabled Mobile Phones: The
                                      Mobile Century Field Experiment. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging
                                      Technologies, 18, 568-583. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2009.10.006

                                [7] Saldivar-Carranza, E., Li, H., Mathew, J., Hunter, M., Sturdevant, J. and Bullock,
                                       D.M. (2021) Deriving Operational Traffic Signal Performance Measures from Ve-
                                      hicle Trajectory Data. Transportation Research Record, 2675, 1250-1264.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1177/03611981211006725

                                [8] Mathew, J.K., Desai, J.C., Sakhare, R.S., Kim, W., Li, H. and Bullock, D.M. (2021)
                                      Big Data Applications for Managing Roadways. Institute of Transportation Engi-
                                      neers. ITE Journal, 91, 28-35.

                                [9] Claros, B., Vorhes, G., Chitturi, M., Bill, A. and Noyce, D.A. (2022) Filling Traffic
                                      Count Gaps with Connected Vehicle Data. International Conference on Transpor-
                                      tation and Development 2022, Seattle, 31 May-3 June, 2022, 192-199.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1061/9780784484326.019

                               [10] Desai, J., Saldivar-Carranza, E., Mathew, J.K., Li, H., Platte, T. and Bullock, D.
                                       (2021) Methodology for Applying Connected Vehicle Data to Evaluate Impact of
                                      Interstate Construction Work Zone Diversions. 2021 IEEE International Intelligent
                                      Transportation Systems Conference (ITSC), Indianapolis, 19-22 September 2021,
                                       4035-4042. https://doi.org/10.1109/ITSC48978.2021.9564873

                               [11] Saldivar-Carranza, E., Li, H., Mathew, J., Fisher, C. and Bullock, D.M. (2022) Signa-
                                       lized Corridor Timing Plan Change Assessment Using Connected Vehicle Data.
                                      Journal of Transportation Technologies, 12, 310-322.
                                       https://doi.org/10.4236/jtts.2022.123019

                               [12] Day, C.M., Li, H., Richardson, L.M., Howard, J., Platte, T., Sturdevant, J.R. and
                                       Bullock, D.M. (2017) Detector-Free Optimization of Traffic Signal Offsets with
                                      Connected Vehicle Data. Transportation Research Record, 2620, 54-68.
                                       https://doi.org/10.3141/2620-06

                               [13] Xu, J. and Tian, Z. (2023) OD-Based Partition Technique to Improve Arterial Signal
                                      Coordination Using Connected Vehicle Data. Transportation Research Record,
                                       2677, 252-265. https://doi.org/10.1177/03611981221098692

                               [14] Wasson, J.S., Sturdevant, J.R. and Bullock, D.M. (2008) Real-Time Travel Time Es-
                                      timates Using Media Access Control Address Matching. ITE Journal, 78, 20-23.
                                       https://trid.trb.org/view/868208

                               [15] Day, C.M., Haseman, R., Premachandra, H., Brennan Jr., T.M., Wasson, J.S., Stur-
                                       devant, J.R. and Bullock, D.M. (2010) Evaluation of Arterial Signal Coordination:
                                       Methodologies for Visualizing High-Resolution Event Data and Measuring Travel
                                      Time. Transportation Research Record, 2192, 37-49.

                               348  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                    S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                                       https://doi.org/10.3141/2192-04

                               [16] Smaglik, E.J., Bullock, D.M. and Sharma, A. (2007) Pilot Study on Real-Time Cal-
                                      culation of Arrival Type for Assessment of Arterial Performance. Journal of Trans-
                                      portation Engineering, 133, 415-422.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)0733-947X(2007)133:7(415)

                               [17] Day, C.M., Bullock, D.M., Li, H., Remias, S.M., Hainen, A.M., Freije, R.S., Stevens,
                                       A., Sturdevant, J. and Brennan, T.M. (2014) Performance Measures for Traffic Sig-
                                       nal Systems: An Outcome-Oriented Approach. Purdue University, West Lafayette.
                                       https://doi.org/10.5703/1288284315333

                               [18] Liu, H.X. and Ma, W. (2009) A Virtual Vehicle Probe Model for Time-Dependent
                                      Travel Time Estimation on Signalized Arterials. Transportation Research Part C:
                                      Emerging Technologies, 17, 11-26. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2008.05.002

                               [19] Mahmud, S. and Day, C.M. (2022) Leveraging Data-Driven Traffic Management in
                                      Smart Cities: Datasets for Highway Traffic Monitoring. In: Alavi, A.H., et al., The
                                      Rise of Smart Cities, Butterworth-Heinemann, Oxford, 583-607.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-817784-6.00009-6

                               [20] Hainen, A.M., Wasson, J.S., Hubbard, S.M., Remias, S.M., Farnsworth, G.D. and
                                       Bullock, D.M. (2011) Estimating Route Choice and Travel Time Reliability with
                                      Field Observations of Bluetooth Probe Vehicles. Transportation Research Record,
                                       2256, 43-50. https://doi.org/10.3141/2256-06

                               [21] Remias, S.M., Hainen, A.M., Day, C.M., Brennan Jr., T.M., Li, H., Rivera-Hernandez,
                                       E., Sturdevant, J.R., Young, S.E. and Bullock, D.M. (2013) Performance Characteri-
                                      zation of Arterial Traffic Flow with Probe Vehicle Data. Transportation Research
                                      Record, 2380, 10-21. https://doi.org/10.3141/2380-02

                               [22] Hu, J., Fontaine, M.D., Park, B.B. and Ma, J. (2016) Field Evaluations of an Adaptive
                                      Traffic Signal--Using Private-Sector Probe Data. Journal of Transportation Engi-
                                      neering, 142, Article ID: 04015033.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)TE.1943-5436.0000806

                               [23] Hu, J., Fontaine, M.D. and Ma, J. (2016) Quality of Private Sector Travel-Time Data
                                      on Arterials. Journal of Transportation Engineering, 142, Article ID: 04016010.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)TE.1943-5436.0000815

                               [24] Day, C.M. and Bullock, D.M. (2020) Optimization of Traffic Signal Offsets with
                                      High-Resolution Event Data. Journal of Transportation Engineering, Part A: Sys-
                                      tems, 146, Article ID: 04019076. https://doi.org/10.1061/JTEPBS.0000309

                               [25] Day, C.M. and Bullock, D.M. (2011) Computational Efficiency of Alternative Algo-
                                      rithms for Arterial Offset Optimization. Transportation Research Record, 2259,
                                       37-47. https://doi.org/10.3141/2259-04

                               [26] Shams, A., Mahmud, S. and Day, C.M. (2023) Comparison of Flow- and Bandwid-
                                      th-Based Methods of Traffic Signal Offset Optimization. Journal of Transportation
                                      Engineering, Part A: Systems, 149, Article ID: 04023033.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1061/JTEPBS.TEENG-7404

                               [27] Day, C.M. and Li, H. (2016) Implementation of Automated Traffic Signal Perfor-
                                      mance Measures. Institute of Transportation Engineers. ITE Journal, 86, 26-34.
                                       https://trid.trb.org/view/1418795

                               [28] Hu, H. and Liu, H.X. (2013) Arterial Offset Optimization Using Archived High-Re-
                                      solution Traffic Signal Data. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technolo-
                                      gies, 37, 131-144. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2013.10.001

                               [29] Muthuswamy, S., Brueckner, P., Liu, G., Moonam, H., Marquis, R. and Adnan, M.D.
                                       (2021) Integrated Corridor Management (ICM) Concept Exploration for Suffolk

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  349  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day                   County Department of Public Works (SCDPW) and New York State Department of
DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016          Transportation (NYSDOT) Region 10 (No. NYS DOT C-15-12). New York State
                                       Energy Research and Development Authority.
                                       https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/-/media/Project/Nyserda/Files/Publications/Research/
                                       Transporta-
                                       tion/21-17-Integrated-Corridor-Management-Concept-Exploration-Suffolk-County
                                       .pdf

                               [30] HERE (2020) Connected-Driving.
                                       https://www.here.com/solutions/connected-driving

                               [31] INRIX (2023) INRIX Signal Analytics. https://inrix.com/products/signal-analytics

                               [32] Wejo (2023) Products. Wejo Traffic Intelligence.
                                       https://www.wejo.com/products/traffic-intelligence

                               [33] Waze (2023) Waze for Cities. https://www.waze.com/ccp

                               [34] The University of Maryland, C.L. (2020) RITIS Introduction.
                                       https://www.ritis.org/intro

                               [35] Li, H., Mackey, J., Luker, M., Taylor, M. and Bullock, D.M. (2019) Application of
                                       High-Resolution Trip Trace Stitching to Evaluate Traffic Signal System Changes.
                                      Transportation Research Record, 2673, 188-201.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1177/0361198119841043

                               [36] Zhang, K., Jia, N., Zheng, L. and Liu, Z. (2019) A Novel Generative Adversarial
                                       Network for Estimation of Trip Travel Time Distribution with Trajectory Data.
                                      Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, 108, 223-244.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.09.019

                               [37] Waddell, J.M., Remias, S.M. and Kirsch, J.N. (2020) Characterizing Traffic-Signal
                                       Performance and Corridor Reliability Using Crowd-Sourced Probe Vehicle Tra-
                                      jectories. Journal of Transportation Engineering, Part A: Systems, 146, Article ID:
                                       04020053. https://doi.org/10.1061/JTEPBS.0000378

                               [38] Huang, J., Li, G., Wang, Q. and Yu, H. (2013) Real-Time Delay Estimation for Sig-
                                      nalized Intersection Using Transit Vehicle Positioning Data. 2013 13th Internation-
                                      al Conference on ITS Telecommunications (ITST), Tampere, 5-7 November 2013,
                                       216-221.

                               [39] Wolf, J.C., Ma, J., Cisco, B., Neill, J., Moen, B. and Jarecki, C. (2019) Deriving Signal
                                       Performance Metrics from Large-Scale Connected Vehicle System Deployment.
                                      Transportation Research Record, 2673, 36-46.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1177/0361198119838520

                               [40] Saldivar-Carranza, E.D., Li, H. and Bullock, D.M. (2021) Diverging Diamond In-
                                      terchange Performance Measures Using Connected Vehicle Data. Journal of
                                      Transportation Technologies, 11, 628-643. https://doi.org/10.4236/jtts.2021.114039

                               [41] Saldivar-Carranza, E., Li, H., Taylor, M. and Bullock, D.M. (2022) Continuous Flow
                                      Intersection Performance Measures Using Connected Vehicle Data. Journal of
                                      Transportation Technologies, 12, 861-875. https://doi.org/10.4236/jtts.2022.124047

                               [42] Saldivar-Carranza, E.D., Hunter, M., Li, H., Mathew, J. and Bullock, D.M. (2021)
                                       Longitudinal Performance Assessment of Traffic Signal System Impacted by
                                       Long-Term Interstate Construction Diversion Using Connected Vehicle Data.
                                      Journal of Transportation Technologies, 11, 644-659.
                                       https://doi.org/10.4236/jtts.2021.114040

                               [43] Desai, J., Li, H., Mathew, J.K., Cheng, Y.T., Habib, A. and Bullock, D.M. (2021)
                                       Correlating Hard-Braking Activity with Crash Occurrences on Interstate Construc-
                                      tion Projects in Indiana. Journal of Big Data Analytics in Transportation, 3, 27-41.

                               350  Journal of Transportation Technologies
                                    S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                                       https://doi.org/10.1007/s42421-020-00024-x

                               [44] Stipancic, J., Miranda-Moreno, L. and Saunier, N. (2018) Vehicle Manoeuvers as
                                       Surrogate Safety Measures: Extracting Data from the GPS-Enabled Smartphones of
                                      Regular Drivers. Accident Analysis & Prevention, 115, 160-169.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aap.2018.03.005

                               [45] Hunter, M., Saldivar-Carranza, E., Desai, J., Mathew, J.K., Li, H. and Bullock, D.M.
                                       (2021) A Proactive Approach to Evaluating Intersection Safety Using Hard-Braking
                                      Data. Journal of Big Data Analytics in Transportation, 3, 81-94.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1007/s42421-021-00039-y

                               [46] Mahmud, S. and Day, C. (2023) Exploring Crowdsourced Hard--Acceleration and
                                       Braking Event Data for Evaluating Safety Performance of Low-Volume Rural
                                      Highways in Iowa. Journal of Transportation Technologies, 13, 282-300.
                                       https://doi.org/10.4236/jtts.2023.132014

                               [47] Almeida, A.M., Lima, M.I., Macedo, J.A. and Machado, J.C. (2016) DMM: A Dis-
                                      tributed Map-Matching Algorithm Using the MapReduce Paradigm. 2016 IEEE
                                      19th International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), Rio de
                                       Janeiro, 1-4 November 2016, 1706-1711. https://doi.org/10.1109/ITSC.2016.7795788

                               [48] Zeidan, A., Lagerspetz, E., Zhao, K., Nurmi, P., Tarkoma, S. and Vo, H.T. (2020)
                                      Geomatch: Efficient Large-Scale Map Matching on Apache Spark. ACM Transac-
                                      tions on Data Science, 1, 1-30. https://doi.org/10.1145/3402904

                               [49] Francia, M., Gallinucci, E. and Vitali, F. (2019) Map-Matching on Big Data: A Dis-
                                      tributed and Efficient Algorithm with a Hidden Markov Model. 2019 42nd Interna-
                                      tional Convention on Information and Communication Technology, Electronics
                                      and Microelectronics (MIPRO), Opatija, 20-24 May 2019, 1238-1243.
                                       https://doi.org/10.23919/MIPRO.2019.8757119

                               [50] Young, S.E., Sharifi, E., Day, C.M. and Bullock, D.M. (2017) Visualizations of Travel
                                      Time Performance Based on Vehicle Reidentification Data. Transportation Re-
                                      search Record, 2646, 84-92. https://doi.org/10.3141/2646-10

                               [51] Highway Capacity Manual (2010) Publication Special Report 209. Transportation
                                       Research Board, Washington DC.

                               [52] Beak, B., Head, K.L. and Khoshmagham, S. (2017) Systematic Analysis of Traffic
                                       Signal Coordination Using Connected-Vehicle Technology (No. 17-02535).
                                       https://trid.trb.org/view/1438059

                               [53] Beak, B., Head, K.L. and Khosravi, S. (2018) Quantitative Analysis of Smooth Pro-
                                      gression in Traffic Signal Systems. Journal of Transportation Engineering, Part A:
                                      Systems, 144, Article ID: 04017082. https://doi.org/10.1061/JTEPBS.0000123

                               [54] Wallace, C.E. and Courage, K.G. (1984) Improved Graphic Techniques in Signal
                                      Progression. Transportation Research Record, 957, 47-55.
                                       http://onlinepubs.trb.org/Onlinepubs/trr/1984/957/957-009.pdf

                               [55] Hillier, J.A. and Rothery, R. (1967) The Synchronization of Traffic Signals for
                                      Minimum Delay. Transportation Science, 1, 81-94.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1287/trsc.1.2.81

                               [56] Robertson, D.I. (1969) Transyt: A Traffic Network Study Tool. Publication LR 253.
                                       Crowthorne, Berkshire.

                               [57] Axer, S. and Friedrich, B. (2017) Signal Timing Estimation Based on Low Frequency
                                      Floating Car Data. Transportation Research Procedia, 25, 1645-1661.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trpro.2017.05.214

                               [58] Skabardonis, A., Varaiya, P. and Petty, K.F. (2003) Measuring Recurrent and Non-

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  351  Journal of Transportation Technologies
S. Mahmud, C. M. Day

                                      recurrent Traffic Congestion. Transportation Research Record, 1856, 118-124.
                                       https://doi.org/10.3141/1856-12

                               [59] Kwon, J., Mauch, M. and Varaiya, P. (2006) Components of Congestion: Delay
                                       from Incidents, Special Events, Lane Closures, Weather, Potential Ramp Metering
                                      Gain, and Excess Demand. Transportation Research Record, 1959, 84-91.
                                       https://doi.org/10.1177/0361198106195900110

DOI: 10.4236/jtts.2023.133016  352  Journal of Transportation Technologies
