arXiv:1904.08117v3 [cs.LG] 16 Jan 2020  A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods

                                        HUA WEI, College of Information Sciences and Technology, Penn State University, USA
                                        GUANJIE ZHENG, College of Information Sciences and Technology, Penn State University, USA
                                        VIKASH GAYAH, Department of Civil Engineering, Penn State University, USA
                                        ZHENHUI LI, College of Information Sciences and Technology, Penn State University, USA

                                        Traffic signal control is an important and challenging real-world problem, which aims to minimize the travel time of vehicles
                                        by coordinating their movements at the road intersections. Current traffic signal control systems in use still rely heavily on
                                        oversimplified information and rule-based methods, although we now have richer data, more computing power and advanced
                                        methods to drive the development of intelligent transportation. With the growing interest in intelligent transportation
                                        using machine learning methods like reinforcement learning, this survey covers the widely acknowledged transportation
                                        approaches and a comprehensive list of recent literature on reinforcement for traffic signal control. We hope this survey can
                                        foster interdisciplinary research on this important topic.

                                        Additional Key Words and Phrases: traffic signal control, transportation, reinforcement learning, deep learning, mobility data
                                        ACM Reference Format:
                                        Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li. 2020. A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods. 1, 1 (January 2020),
                                        32 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn

                                        1 INTRODUCTION
                                        Traffic congestion is a growing problem that continues to plague urban areas with negative outcomes to both the
                                        traveling public and society as a whole. These negative outcomes will only grow over time as more people flock
                                        to urban areas. In 2014, traffic congestion costs Americans over $160 billion in lost productivity and wasted over
                                        3.1 billion gallons of fuel [Economist 2014]. Traffic congestion was also attributed to over 56 billion pounds of
                                        harmful CO2 emissions in 2011 [Schrank et al. 2015]. In the European Union, the cost of traffic congestion was
                                        equivalent to 1% of the entire GDP [Schrank et al. 2012]. Mitigating congestion would have significant economic,
                                        environmental and societal benefits. Signalized intersections are one of the most prevalent bottleneck types in
                                        urban environments, and thus traffic signal control plays a vital role in urban traffic management.

                                        1.1 Current Situation
                                        In many modern cities today, the widely-used adaptive traffic signal control systems such as SCATS [Lowrie
                                        1992] and SCOOT [Hunt et al. 1982, 1981] heavily rely on manually designed traffic signal plans. Such manually
                                        set traffic signal plans are designed to be dynamically selected according to the traffic volume detected by loop

                                        Authors' addresses: Hua Wei, College of Information Sciences and Technology, Penn State University, University Park, PA, 16802, USA,
                                        hzw77@ist.psu.edu; Guanjie Zheng, College of Information Sciences and Technology, Penn State University, University Park, PA, 16802,
                                        USA, gjz5038@ist.psu.edu; Vikash Gayah, Department of Civil Engineering, Penn State University, University Park, PA, 16802, USA,
                                        gayah@engr.psu.edu; Zhenhui Li, College of Information Sciences and Technology, Penn State University, University Park, PA, 16802, USA,
                                        jessieli@ist.psu.edu.

                                        Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that
                                        copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first
                                        page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy
                                        otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from
                                        permissions@acm.org.
                                        © 2020 Association for Computing Machinery.
                                        XXXX-XXXX/2020/1-ART $15.00
                                        https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn

                                                                                                                                                , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:2 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

Cycle length (s)  200
                  180
                  160                   2018-04-09  2018-04-16   2018-04-23  2018-04-30
                  140                               Date & Time
                  120

                            2018-04-02

Fig. 1. Traffic signal timing of a downtown intersection in Hangzhou, China. The x- and y-axis indicate the time and cycle
length of the traffic signal. The cycle length rarely changes as time goes by.

sensors. However, many intersections do not have loop sensors installed or the loop sensors are poorly maintained.
Moreover, the loop sensors are activated only when vehicles pass through them; thus, they can only provide
partial information about the vehicle through them. As a result, the signal cannot perceive and react to real-time
traffic patterns. Engineers need to manually change the traffic signal timings in the signal control system under
certain traffic condition scenarios. Figure 1 shows the traffic signal timing at an intersection in a city of China,
and the traffic signal timing rarely changes regardless of the real traffic changes throughout the day.

1.2 Opportunities
First, today we have much richer information that can be collected from various sources. Traditional traffic signal
control relies on data from loop sensors, which can only sense the vehicle passing. However, new data sources are
quickly becoming available that can serve as input for traffic signal control purposes. For instance, street-facing
surveillance cameras used for security purposes can also provide a more detailed depiction of the traffic situation
on nearby roads, specifically on how many cars are waiting in the lane, how many cars are taking turns, where
they are located, and how fast they are traveling. In addition, large-scale trajectory data can be collected from
various sources such as navigation applications (e.g., Google Maps), ride-sharing platforms (e.g., Uber), and
GPS-equipped vehicles that share information with the nearby infrastructure (e.g., connected vehicles). Such
data provide us with more insight into how vehicles arrive at intersections. We have reached a stage of sufficient
mobility information that can describe the traffic dynamics in the city more clearly, which is an essential resource
for us to improve the traffic control system.

                Fig. 2. Difference between traditional transportation approach and machine learning approach.

   Second, today we have the much stronger computing power and advanced computational models. The typical
approach that transportation researchers take is to cast traffic signal control as an optimization problem under
certain assumptions about the traffic model, e.g., vehicles come in a uniform and constant rate [Roess et al.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                                         A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :3

2004]. Various (and sometimes strong) assumptions have to be made in order to make the optimization problem
tractable. The key issue here is that these assumptions deviate from the real world and often do so significantly.
As we know, real-world traffic condition evolves in a complicated way, affected by many factors such as driver's
preference, interactions with vulnerable road users (e.g., pedestrians, cyclists, etc.), weather and road conditions.
These factors can hardly be fully described in a traffic model.

   On the other hand, machine learning techniques can directly learn from the observed data without making
unrealistic assumptions about the model. However, typical supervised learning does not apply here because
existing traffic signal control systems follow pre-defined signal plans so we do not have enough training data to
differentiate good and bad traffic signal plan strategies. Instead, we have first to take actions to change the signal
plans and then learn from the outcomes. This trial-and-error approach is also the core idea of reinforcement
learning (RL). In essence, an RL system generates and executes different strategies (e.g., for traffic signal con-
trol) based on the current environment. It will then learn and adjust the strategy based on the feedback from
the environment. This reveals the most significant difference between transportation approaches and our RL
approaches, which is illustrated in Figure 2: in traditional transportation research, the model f unc(data) is static;
in reinforcement learning, the model is dynamically learned through trial-and-error in the real environment.

1.3 Motivation of This Survey
With the surge of AI technology and increasingly available city data, governments and industries are now actively
seeking solutions to improve the transportation system. For example, in China, Alibaba and Didi Chuxing are
working on using mobility data and advanced computing technology to enhance city transportation [CNN 2019;
Wire 2018]. This survey could provide a useful reference for the industry when they revolutionize current traffic
signal control systems by trying out the RL-based methods. Specifically, we discuss the learning approaches of
recent RL-based methods with their weaknesses and strengths and benchmark the experiment settings of the
existing works.

   At the same time, with the recent success in reinforcement learning techniques, we see an increasing interest
in academia to use reinforcement learning to improve traffic signal control [Mannion et al. 2016]. However,
most existing machine learning approaches tend to ignore classic transportation approaches and lack a good
comparison with existing transportation approaches. This survey takes a comprehensive view of both machine
learning and transportation engineering and hopes to facilitate this interdisciplinary research direction.

1.4 Scope of This Survey
In this survey, we will cover many classical or widely accepted transportation approaches in traffic signal control.
We refer readers interested in comprehensive transportation approaches to [Li et al. 2014; Papageorgiou et al.
2003; Roess et al. 2004]. The application of reinforcement learning methods in traffic signal control is relatively
new. Recent advances in deep reinforcement learning also arouses new applications of RL in traffic signal control
problem. While [Yau et al. 2017] and [Mannion et al. 2016] provide comprehensive surveys mainly on earlier
studies before the popularity of deep reinforcement learning, in this survey, we will have comprehensive coverage
in RL-based traffic signal control approaches, including the recent advances in deep RL-based traffic signal control
methods.

2 PRELIMINARY
2.1 Term Definition
Terms on road structure and traffic movement:

    · Approach: A roadway meeting at an intersection is referred to as an approach. At any general intersection,
       there are two kinds of approaches: incoming approaches and outgoing approaches. An incoming approach

                                                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:4 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

                                    Fig. 3. Definitions of traffic movement and traffic signal phases.
       is one on which cars can enter the intersection; an outgoing approach is one on which cars can leave
       the intersection. Figure 3(a) shows a typical intersection with four incoming approaches and outgoing
       approaches. The southbound incoming approach is denoted in this figure as the approach on the north side
       in which vehicles are traveling in the southbound direction.
    · Lane: An approach consists of a set of lanes. Similar to approach definition, there are two kinds of lanes:
       incoming lanes and outgoing lanes (also known as approaching/entering lane and receiving/exiting lane in
       some references [El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2012; Stevanovic 2010]).
    · Traffic movement: A traffic movement refers to vehicles moving from an incoming approach to an
       outgoing approach, denoted as (ri  ro), where ri and ro is the incoming lane and the outgoing lane
       respectively. A traffic movement is generally categorized as left turn, through, and right turn.
   Terms on traffic signal:
    · Movement signal: A movement signal is defined on the traffic movement, with green signal indicating
       the corresponding movement is allowed and red signal indicating the movement is prohibited. For the
       four-leg intersection shown in Figure 3(a), the right-turn traffic can pass regardless of the signal, and there
       are eight movement signals in use, as shown in Figure 3(b).
    · Phase: A phase is a combination of movement signals. Figure 3(c) shows the conflict matrix of the
       combination of two movement signals in the example in Figure 3(a) and Figure 3(b). The grey cell indicates
       the corresponding two movements conflict with each other, i.e. they cannot be set to `green' at the same
       time (e.g., signals #1 and #2). The white cell indicates the non-conflicting movement signals. All the non-
       conflicting signals will generate eight valid paired-signal phases (letters `A' to 'H' in Figure 3(c)) and eight
       single-signal phases (the diagonal cells in conflict matrix). Here we letter the paired-signal phases only
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                                    A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :5

because in an isolated intersection, it is always more efficient to use paired-signal phases. When considering

  multiple intersections, single-signal phase might be necessary because of the potential spill back.
· Phase sequence: A phase sequence is a sequence of phases which defines a set of phases and their order

of changes.

· Signal plan: A signal plan for a single intersection is a sequence of phases and their corresponding starting

time. Here we denote a signal plan as (p1, t1)(p2, t2) . . . (pi , ti ) . . . , where pi and ti stand for a phase and its

starting time.

· Cycle-based signal plan: A cycle-based signal plan is a kind of signal plan where the sequence of phases

operates  in  a  cyclic  order,    which    can  be  denoted   as   (p1,  t11)(p2  ,  t1  )  .  .  .  (p  N  ,  t  1  )(p1,     t12)(p2,    t2  )  .  .  .  (pN  ,  t  2  )  .  .  .  ,
                                                                                                                   N                                                   N
                                                                                       2                                                     2

where p1, p2, . . . , pN is the repeated phase sequence and tij is the starting time of phase pi in the j-th cycle.
                                                                                                                   t j -t j                 } tNj -tNj -1
Specifically, Cj  =  t j+1  - tj   is  the  cycle  length  of  the  j-th  phase       cycle,          and       {            ,  .  .  .  ,                  is  the    phase
                                                                                                                    21                          Cj
                      1         1
                                                                                                                    Cj
split of the j-th phase cycle. Existing traffic signal control methods usually repeats similar phase sequence

throughout the day.

2.2 Objective
The objective of traffic signal control is to facilitate safe and efficient movement of vehicles at the intersection.
Safety is achieved by separating conflicting movements in time and is not considered in more detail here. Various
measures have been proposed to quantify efficiency of the intersection from different perspectives:

    · Travel time. In traffic signal control, travel time of a vehicle is defined as the time different between the
       time one car enters the system and the time it leaves the system. One of the most common goals is to
       minimize the average travel time of vehicles in the network.

    · Queue length. The queue length of the road network is the number of queuing vehicles in the road network.
    · Number of stops. The number of stops of a vehicle is the total times that a vehicle experienced.
    · Throughput. The throughput is the number of vehicles that have completed their trip in the road network

       during a period.

2.3 Special Considerations
In practice, additional attention should be paid to the following aspects:

  (1) Yellow and all-red time. A yellow signal is usually set as a transition from a green signal to a red one.
       Following the yellow, there is an all-red period during which all the signals in an intersection are set to red.
       The yellow and all-red time, which can last from 3 to 6 seconds, allow vehicles to stop safely or pass the
       intersection before vehicles in conflicting traffic movements are given a green signal.

  (2) Minimum green time. Usually, a minimum green signal time is required to ensure pedestrians moving
       during a particular phase can safely pass through the intersection.

  (3) Left turn phase. Usually, a left-turn phase is added when the left-turn volume is above certain threshold.

3 METHODS IN TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING
In this section, we introduce several selected classical methods in transportation field, which should be taken
into comparison as baselines for RL-based methods. An overview of covered methods is shown in Table 1. For a
more comprehensive survey for the methods in transportation, we refer the interested readers to [Martinez et al.
2011; Roess et al. 2004].

                                                                                      , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:6 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li
                               Table 1. Overview of classic optimization-based transportation methods

Method          Prior Knowledge                                    Data Input                  Output
Webster
                phase sequence in a cycle traffic volume                                       cycle-based signal plan for
GreenWave,                                                                                     an individual intersection
Maxband
Actuated, SOTL  cycle-based signal plan at in- traffic volume, speed offset for a cycle-based sig-

Max-pressure    dividual intersections                             limit, lane length nal plan

SCATS           phase sequence, phase traffic volume                                           change to next phase accord-
                change rule                                                                    ing to the rule and data

                none                                               queue length                signal plan for all intersec-
                                                                                               tions

                signal plan for all intersec- traffic volume                                   adjusted signal plans
                tions

3.1 Webster (single intersection)

For a single (isolated) intersection, the traffic signal plan in transportation engineering usually consists of a
pre-timed cycle length , fixed cycle-based phase sequence, and phase split. Webster method [Koonce et al. 2008]

is one of the widely-used method in field to calculate the cycle length and phase split for a single intersection.

Assuming the traffic flow is uniform during a certain period (i.e., past 5 or 10 minutes), it has a closed-form

solution shown in Eq. (1) and (2) to generate the optimal cycle length and phase split for a single intersection

that minimizes the travel time of all vehicles passing the intersection.
   The calculation of the desired cycle length Cdes relies on Webster's Equation:

                                   Cdes (Vc ) =                    N × tL                                                     (1)
                                                 1-
                                                                          Vc

                                                                   3600  ×P  H  F  ×(v  /c  )
                                                                    h

where N is the number of phases; tL is the total loss time per phase, which can be treated as a parameter related
to the all-red time and the acceleration and deceleration of vehicles; parameter h is saturation headway time

(seconds/vehicle), which is the smallest time interval between successive vehicles passing a point; PH F is short

for peak hour factor, which is a parameter measuring traffic demand fluctuations within the peak hour; and the
parameter v/c is desired volume-to-capacity ratio, which indicates how busy the intersection is in a signal timing

context. These parameters usually vary in different traffic conditions and are usually selected based on empirical

observations and agency standards. The equation represents a function of Vc , where Vc = iN Vci is the sum of all
critical lane volumes, which indicates how busy the intersection is in the signal timing context, and Vci stands for
the critical lane volumes for phase i, where a critical lane is the approaching lane with the highest ratio of traffic

flow to saturation flow in a phase, usually indicated by the queue length.

Once the cycle length is decided, the green split (i.e., the green time over the cycle length) is then calculated to

be proportional to the ratios of critical lane volumes served by each phase, as indicated in Eq. (2):

                                                            ti  =  Vci                                                        (2)
                                                            tj     Vcj

where ti and tj stands for the phase duration for phase i and j.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                 A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :7

   Eq. (1) and (2) are typically applied using aggregated data to develop fixed-time plans. However, these equations
can also be modified for real-time application. For example, when the traffic is uniform, the Webster method can
be proved to minimize the travel time of all vehicles passing the intersection or maximize the intersection capacity.

By collecting data for a short time period and assuming no fluctuation in traffic demand and no redundancy left
in a cycle, i.e., setting both PH F and v/c to 1, Eq. (2) can be re-organized as

(1  -  N × tL   3600    =  Vc .  (3)
        Cdes   )

                  h

   The left side of Eq. (3) is the proportion of time utilized for traffic movements at the intersection multiplied

by the saturation flow of vehicles, which is the capacity of the intersection. When capacity equals to the traffic
demand Vc , cycle length Cdes is the minimum value that tightly satisfies the traffic demands. For a given traffic
demand, if a signal cycle length smaller than Cdes is applied, the queue length will keep increasing and the
intersection gets over-saturated. If a signal cycle length larger than Cdes is applied, the mean delay for each
vehicle at the intersection will grow linearly with the cycle length.

3.2 GreenWave
While Webster method generates the signal plan for a single intersection, the offsets (i.e., starting time between
phase cycles at adjacent intersections) between the signal timings for adjacent traffic signals should also be
optimized as signals are often in close proximity. Failure to do so can lead to decisions being made at one signal
that can deteriorate traffic operations at another.

   GreenWave [Roess et al. 2004] is the most classical method in transportation field to implement coordination,
which aims to optimize the offsets to reduce the number of stops for vehicles traveling along one certain direction.
Given the signal plan (i.e., cycle length and phase split) of individual intersections, GreenWave requires all
intersections to share the same cycle length, which is the maximum value of the given cycle lengths for individual
intersections. The offsets between intersections are calculated by the following equation:

       ti, j  =  Li, j           (4)
                  v

where Li,j is the road length between intersection i and j, and v is the expected travel speed of vehicles on the
road.

This method can form a green wave along the designated direction of traffic where vehicles traveling along

that direction can benefit from a progressive cascade of green signals without stopping at any intersections.
However, GreenWave only optimizes for unidirectional traffic.

3.3 Maxband
Another typical approach, Maxband [Little et al. 1981], also takes the signal plans for individual intersections
as input and optimizes the offsets for adjacent traffic signals. Different from GreenWave, it aims to reduce the
number of stops for vehicles traveling along two opposite directions through finding a maximal bandwidth based
on the signal plans of individual intersections within the system. The bandwidth for one direction is a portion of

time that the synchronized green wave lasts in a cycle length. A larger bandwidth implies that more traffic along

one direction can progress through the signals without stops.
   Like GreenWave, Maxband [Little et al. 1981] requires all intersections to share the same cycle length, which

equals to the maximum value of all cycle lengths of intersections. Then Maxband formulates a mixed integer
linear programming model to generate a symmetric, uniform-width bandwidth, subject to the following physical

constraints:

                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:8 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

Fig. 4. Illustration of the constraints in Maxband under a three-intersection arterial network. Red solid/dotted lines indicate
the red signal for inbound/outbound direction. The green band indicates the green wave. (a) - (b): Bandwidth constraints of
each individual intersection on inbound and outbound direction. (c): Temporal constraint between two intersections. (d) - (e):
Spatial constraints between two intersections.

· Constraints on the bandwidth of individual intersections. For simplicity, all the time intervals in the
  following refers to the ratio of time over the cycle length C.
  ­ For each direction (here we use inbound and outbound to differentiate two designated directions), the

     green time should be greater than the bandwidth. We have:

                                                            wi + b  1 - ri, wi > 0       (5a)

                                                            w¯i + b¯  1 - r¯i , w¯i > 0  (5b)

  Here, wi /w¯i denotes the time interval between the end of red time and the start of bandwidth on
  inbound/outbound direction, b is the bandwidth variable, and ri /r¯i is the red time on inbound/outbound
  direction.

­ For two different directions (inbound and outbound), usually the bandwidths for inbound and outbound

are set equal:

                                                            b = b¯                       (6)

· Temporal and spatial constraints on offsets between two intersections i and j.

­ Temporal constraints.

                         (i, j) + ¯(i, j) + i - j = m(i, j)                              (7)

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                            A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :9

  Here, /¯ is the inbound/outbound offset between intersections,  is the intra-intersection offset between
  the inbound and outbound red time, m(i, j) is an integer variable, indicating a multiple of cycle length.
­ Spatial constraints. The travel time of a vehicle starting from one intersection to another satisfies a
  function of the offset between them, the queue clearance time at the destined intersection and their red

  time.

                     (i, j) + 0.5  rj + wj + j = 0.5  ri + wi + t(i, j)                          (8a)

                     ¯(i, j) + 0.5  r¯j + w¯ j = 0.5  r¯i + w¯i - ¯i + t¯(i, j)  (8b)

    Here, t/t¯ is the travel time inbound/outbound between intersections, which is relevant to the road length
    and traffic speed.  /¯ is the queue clearance time at an intersection, which is relevant to the turn-in and

    generated traffic.

In summary, Maxband aims to find b, b¯ wi , w¯i , mi that:

                     maximize b

                     subject to Eq. (5a), (5b), (6), (7), (8a), (8b)

                               mi  N                                                             (9)

                               b, b¯, wi , w¯i  0, i = 1, . . . , n

   A number of significant extensions of Maxband have been introduced based on the original method [Little
et al. 1981] in order to consider a variety of new aspects. [Gartner et al. 1991] extends to include asymmetric
bandwidths in the opposing direction, variable left-turn phase sequence, as well as decisions on cycle time length
and link specific progression speeds. [Stamatiadis and Gartner 1996] presents the new multi-band, multi-weight
approach, which also incorporates all previous decision capabilities.

3.4 Actuated Control
Actuated control measures the "requests" for a green signal from the current phase and other competing phases,
then based on some rules to decide whether to keep or change the current phase. The definitions of "request" for
the current phase and other competing phases are:

                               Table 2. Rules for actuated control

Request from    Request from   Action
current phase?  other phases?
                               Fully-actuated control:If the duration for the current phase is
Yes             Yes            larger than a threshold, change to the next phase; otherwise,
                               keep the current phase
                No             Semi-actuated control: Keep the current phase
                               Keep the current phase
                Yes
                               Change to the next phase
No              No             Fully-actuated: Keep the current phase
                               Semi-actuated: Change to the default phase (usually set as green
                               signal for the main road

                                                            , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:10 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

    · The request on the current phase to extend the green signal time is generated when the duration for the
       current phase does not reach a minimum time period, or there is a vehicle on the incoming lane of the
       current phase and is within close distance to the intersection. And we call this vehicle is "approaching the
       green signal" in short.

    · The request on the competing phases for a green signal is generated when the number of waiting vehicles
       in the competing phases is larger than a threshold.

   Based on the difference in rules, there are two kinds of actuated control: fully-actuated control and semi-actuated
control. The rules for the decision of keep or changing the current phase are listed in Table 2.

3.5 Self-organizing Traffic Light Control

Table 3. Rules for SOTL control

Request from Request from
                                                Action

current phase? competing phases?

                     Yes  Keep the current phase
Yes

                     No

                     Yes  Change to the next phase
No                        Keep the current phase

                     No

   Self-Organizing Traffic Light Control (SOTL) is basically the same as fully-actuated control with additional
demand responsive rules [Cools et al. 2013; Gershenson 2004]. The main difference between SOTL and fully-
actuated control is on the definition of request on the current phase (although they both require a minimum green
phase duration): in fully-actuated control, the request on the current phase will be generated whenever there is a
vehicle approaching the green signal, while in SOTL, the request will not be generated unless the number of
vehicles approaching the green signal is larger than a threshold which is not necessarily one. Specifically, the
rules for SOTL control are shown in Table 3.

3.6 Max-pressure
Max-pressure control [Varaiya 2013] aims to reduce the risk of over-saturation by balancing queue length between
neighboring intersections by minimizing the "pressure" of the phases for an intersection. The concept of pressure
is illustrated in Figure 5. Formally, the pressure of a movement signal can be defined as the number of vehicles on
incoming lanes (of the traffic movement) minus the number of vehicles on the corresponding outgoing lanes;
the pressure of a phase is defined as the difference between the total queue length on incoming approaches and
outgoing approaches. By setting the objective as minimizing the pressure of phases for individual intersections,
Max-pressure is proved to maximize the throughput of the whole road network. For readers interested in the
proof, please refer to [Varaiya 2013].

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                             A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :11

                                  North      EW                        North       EW
                            NS             pressure               NS             pressure
                         Pressure         =1-0=1               Pressure         =1-0=1
                       = (2 - 1) = 1                         = (2 - 4) = -2
                                                    East                                  East
                       West                                  West
                                              SN                                   SN
                           WE              Pressure              WE             Pressure
                        pressure         = (2 - 2) = 0         pressure        = (2 - 2) = 0
                        =0-0=0           South                =0-0=0          South

                               Phase Pressure                                   Phase Pressure
                       Phase (N-S): (2-0)+(2-2) = 2                     Phase (N-S): (2-4)+(2-2) = -2
                       Phase (W-E): (0-0)+(1-0) = 1                     Phase (W-E): (0-0)+(1-0) = 1

                                Case A                                            Case B

Fig. 5. Illustration of max pressure control in two cases. In both cases, there are four movement signals: NorthSouth,
SouthNorth, EastWest and WestEast and there are two phases: Phase(N - S) which sets green signal in the
NorthSouth and SouthNorth direction, and Phase(N - S) which sets green signal in the EastWest and WestEast
direction. In Case A, Max-pressure selects Phase(N - S) since the pressure of Phase(N - S) is higher than Phase(W - E); in
Case B, Max-pressure selects Phase(W - E).

   Max-pressure control proposed in [Varaiya 2013] is formally summarized in Algorithm 1. From line 3 to line 7,

this method selects the phase with the maximum pressure, activates it as the next phase and keeps the selected
phase for a given period of time tmin.

Algorithm 1: Max-pressure Control

   Input: Current phase time t, minimum phase duration length tmin

1 forall timestamp do

2 t =t +1

3 if t >= tmin then

4      Calculate the pressure Pi for each phase i;

5      Set the next phase as arg maxi {Pi } ;

6      t = 0;

7 end

8 end

3.7 SCATS
SCATS [Lowrie 1990] (Sydney Coordinated Adaptive Traffic System) takes pre-defined signal plans (i.e., cycle
length, phase split and offsets) as input and iteratively selects from these traffic signals according to the pre-defined
performance measurements. Its measurement like the degree of saturation (DS) is detailed as follows:

                                         DS  =       E    =   - (h - h  × n)                           (10)
                                                                     

   where  is the available green signal time (in seconds), E is the effective green time during which there are

vehicles passing through the intersection and equals to available green signal time minus the wasted green
time; and the wasted green time is calculated through the detection - h is the detected total time gap, n is the

                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:12 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

detected number of vehicles, and h is the unit saturation headway (seconds) between vehicles, which stands for

the smallest time interval between successive vehicles passing a point and usually set with expert knowledge.

    The phase split (i.e., the phase time ratio of all phases), cycle length and offsets are selected from several

pre-defined plans using similar mechanisms. Take the selection mechanism of the phase split as an example. As

shown in Algorithm 2, the algorithm first calculates DS for the current signal plan using Eq. (10) at the end of
each cycle (line 2 to 4). Then from line 6 to line 10, the algorithm infers the DS of other signal plans which are

not applied in the current cycle using the following equation:

                                                        D¯Spj      =  DSp × p       (11)
                                                                          pj

where DSp and p are the the degree of saturation and green signal time for phase p in the current signal plan,
and pj is the degree of saturation for phase p in signal plan j. Then the algorithm selects the signal plan with the

optimal DS.

Algorithm 2: Selection of Phase Split in SCATS

  Input: Candidate signal plan set A = {aj |j = 1, . . . , N } and current plan ac
  Output: Signal plan for next cycle
1 (Calculate DSp for each phase p  {1, . . . , P } in the current signal plan ac )
2 forall p in {1, . . . , P } do
3 Calculate DSp using Eq. (10) ;

4 end

5 (Infer D¯Spj for all candidate signal plans)

6 forall aj in A do

7 forall p in {1, . . . , P } do

8           Calculate D¯Spj using Eq. (11) ;

9 end

10 end

11  Return  the  signal  plan  aj  that  minimizes  iP  D¯S  j  ;
                                                             i

4 REINFORCEMENT LEARNING BASED TRAFFIC SIGNAL CONTROL
Recently, different artificial intelligent techniques have been proposed to control the traffic signal, like fuzzy logic
algorithms [Gokulan and Srinivasan 2010], swarm intelligence [Teodorovi 2008], and reinforcement learning [El-
Tantawy and Abdulhai 2012; Kuyer et al. 2008; Mannion et al. 2016; Wiering 2000]. Among these technologies,
RL is more trending these years.

4.1 Preliminaries
   4.1.1 Basic concepts. In order to solve the traffic signal control problem using RL, we first introduce the

formulation of RL in Problem 1, then we introduce how traffic signal control fits the RL setting. We will also
introduce the formulation of multi-agent RL (MARL) in the context of traffic signal control.

   Problem 1 (RL Framework). Usually a single-agent RL problem is modeled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP)
< S, A, P, R,  >, where S, A, P, R,  are the set of state representations, the set of action, the probabilistic state
transition function, the reward function, and the discount factor respectively. Given two sets X and Y, we use X × Y
to denote the Cartesian product of X and Y, i.e., X × Y = {(x, y)|x  X, y  Y}. The definitions are given as follows:

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                       A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :13

· S: At time step t, the agent observes state st  S.
· A, P: At time step t, the agent takes an action at  A, which induces a transition in the environment according

to the state transition function

                                  P (st+1|st , at ) : S × A  S                               (12)

· R: At time step t, the agent obtains a reward r t by a reward function.

                                  R(st , at ) : S × A  R                                     (13)

·  : The goal of an agent is to find a policy that maximizes the expected return, which is the discounted sum of

rewards:                                         

                                                 Gt :=  i rt +i                              (14)

                                                 i =0

where the discount factor   [0, 1] controls the importance of immediate rewards versus future rewards. Here,

we only consider continuing agent-environment intersections which do not end with terminal states but goes

on continually without limit.

   Definition 4.1 (Optimal policy and optimal value functions). Solving a reinforcement learning task means,

roughly, finding an optimal policy   that maximizes expected return. While the agent only receives reward about

its immediate, one-step performance, one way to find the optimal policy   is by following an optimal action-value
function or state-value function. The action-value function (Q-function) of a policy  , Q : S × A  R, is the
expected return of a state-action pair Q (s, a) = E [Gt |st = s, at = a].

   The optimal Q-function is defined as Q(s, a) = max Q (s, a). It satisfies the Bellman optimality equation:

          Q(st , at ) =           P (st+1|st , at )[r t +  max Q(st+1, at+1)], st  S, at  A  (15)

                         st +1 S                       at +1

   The state-value function of a policy  , V  : S  R, is the expected return of a state V  (s) = E [Gt |st = s].
The optimal state-value function is defined as V (s) = max V  (s). It satisfies the Bellman optimality equation:

          V (st ) = max                          P (st+1|st , at )[r + v(st+1)], st  S       (16)

                                  at  A st +1 S

   Example 4.2 (Isolated Traffic Signal Control Problem). Figure 6 illustrates the basic idea of the RL framework in

traffic light control problem. The environment is the traffic conditions on the roads, and the agent G controls
the traffic signal. At each time step t, a description of the environment (e.g., signal phase, waiting time of cars,

queue length of cars, and positions of cars) will be generated as the state st . The agent will make a prediction
on the next action at to take that maximizes the expected return defined as Eq. (14), where the action could be
changing to a certain phase in a single intersection scenario. The action at will be executed in the environment,
and a reward rt will be generated, where the reward could be defined on the traffic condition of the intersection.

Usually, during the decision process, the policy that the agent takes combines the exploitation of learned policy

and exploration of a new policy.

   Problem 2 (Multiagent RL Framework). The generalization of the MDP to the multi-agent case is the stochastic
game (SG). A stochastic game is defined by a tuple  =< S , P ,A, R,O , N ,  >, where S , P ,A, R,O , N ,  are the sets of
states, transition probability functions, joint actions, reward functions, private observations, number of agents and a
discount factor respectively. The definitions are given as follows:

    · N : N agents identified by i  I = {1, . . . N }.
    · S ,O : At each time step t, agent i draws observation oit  O correlated with the true environment state st  S

       according to the observation function S × I  O .

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:14 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

Environment                                                 Reward  Agent
                                                                           Model

                                                                                                  Explore

                                                                           Exploit MemoryExplore

State

                     Fig. 6. Reinforcement learning framework for traffic light control.

· P ,A. Agent i's action set Ai is defined as a group of phases. At time step t, each agent takes an action ait  Ai ,
  forming a joint action at = a1, . . . , aN , which induces a transition in the environment according to the state

transition function

                     P (st+1|st ,at ) : S × A1 × · · · × AN  (S )                                                       (17)

  where (S ) denotes the space of state distributions.

· R: In a stochastic game setting, the reward an agent obtains is also influenced by the actions of other agents.
  Therefore, at time t, each agent i obtains rewards rit by a reward function

                     Ri (st ,at ) : S × A1 × · · · × AN  R                                                              (18)

·  : Intuitively, the joint actions have long-term effects on the environment. Each agent i chooses an action

following a certain policy i , aiming to maximize its total reward, Gt :=          j  rit  +j  ,  where  the  discount  factor
                                                                           j =0

  [0, 1] controls the importance of immediate rewards versus future rewards.

   Example 4.3 (Multi-intersection Traffic Signal Control Problem). For a network with multiple intersections, the
agents are defined as the signal controllers for N intersections in the environment. The goal of traffic signal

agents controlled with RL is to learn the optimal policies of each agent as well as to optimize the traffic condition

of the whole environment. At each timestep t, each agent i observes part of the environment as the observation
oit . The agents will make predictions on the next actions at to take. In the real world, Ai is mostly pre-defined,
i.e., the traffic signal can only change among several phases. The actions will be executed in the environment,
and the reward rit will be generated, where the reward could be defined on the level of individual intersections or
a group of intersections within the environment.

   4.1.2 Basic components of RL for traffic signal control. There are four main components to formulate the
problem under the framework of RL:

    · Reward design. As RL is learning to maximize a numerical reward, the choice of reward determines the
       direction of learning.

    · State design. State captures the situation on the road and converts it to values. Thus the choice of states
       should sufficiently describe the environment.

    · Selection of action scheme. Different action schemes also have influences on the performance of traffic
       signal control strategies. For example, if the action of an agent is defined as "which phase to change to", the

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                                        A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :15

       traffic signal will have a more flexible phase sequence than defining the action as "keep current phase or
       change to the next phase in a cycle".
    · Coordination strategy. How to achieve coordination is one of the challenges that complicate the signal
       control problem. In urban environments, signals are often in close proximity, and vehicles departing from
       one signal influence the arrival pattern of vehicles to the next downstream intersection. Thus, optimizing
       of signal timings for adjacent traffic signals must be done jointly.

4.2 RL Formulation
A key question for RL is how to formulate the RL setting, i.e., the reward, state and action definition. In recent
studies [van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018; Wiering 2000], a typical reward definition for traffic signal control is
a weighted linear combination of several components such as queue length, waiting time and delay. The state
features include components such as queue length, number of cars, waiting time, and current traffic signal phase.
In recent work [van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018], images of vehicles' positions on the roads are also considered
in the state and fed into deep neural networks to learn the control policies. For more discussions on the reward,
state, and actions, we refer interested readers to [El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2011; Mannion et al. 2016; Yau et al.
2017].

                      Table 4. Elements in state definitions

Element               References
Queue length
                      [Abdoos et al. 2011a, 2014; Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Balaji et al. 2010; Brys et al. 2014;
Waiting time          Chen et al. 2020; Chin et al. 2011; Chu et al. 2019; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010,
Volume                2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Mannion et al. 2016; Nishi et al. 2018; Pham et al. 2013;
Delay                 Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011; Salkham et al. 2008; Wei et al. 2019b, 2018; Xiong et al.
Speed                 2019; Xu et al. 2013; Zang et al. 2020; Zheng et al. 2019a,b]
Phase duration
Congestion            [Chu et al. 2019; Wei et al. 2018]
Position of vehicles
                      [Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Balaji et al. 2010; Cahill et al. 2010; Casas 2017; El-Tantawy
Phase                 and Abdulhai 2010; Wei et al. 2019a, 2018]

                      [Arel et al. 2010]

                      [Casas 2017; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010; Nishi et al. 2018]

                      [Brys et al. 2014; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Mannion et al. 2016; Pham et al. 2013;
                      Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011]

                      [Bakker et al. 2010; Isa et al. 2006; Steingrover et al. 2005]

                      [Bakker et al. 2010; Isa et al. 2006; Khamis and Gomaa 2012; Khamis et al. 2012; Kuyer
                      et al. 2008; Mousavi et al. 2017; Steingrover et al. 2005; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al.
                      2018; Wiering 2000; Wiering et al. 2004a,b]

                      [Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Chen et al. 2020; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Mannion et al. 2016;
                      Salkham et al. 2008; Wei et al. 2019a,b, 2018; Xiong et al. 2019; Zang et al. 2020; Zheng
                      et al. 2019a,b]

                      , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:16 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

   4.2.1 State Definitions. At each time step, the agent receives some quantitative descriptions of the environment
as the state representation. As is shown in Table 4, various kinds of elements have been proposed to describe the
environment state in the traffic signal control problem:

    · Queue length. Queue length of a lane is the total number of waiting vehicles on the lane. There are different
       definitions of a "waiting" state of a vehicle. In [Wei et al. 2018], a vehicle with a speed of less than 0.1 m/s is
       considered as waiting; in [Bakker et al. 2005; Kuyer et al. 2008], a vehicle without movement in terms of
       position is considered as waiting.

    · Waiting time. The waiting time of a vehicle is defined as the time period a vehicle has been in the "waiting"
       state (see queue length above for the definition of "waiting"). The definition on the beginning time of a
       waiting period may be different: in [van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018], they consider the waiting time
       starting from the last timestamp the vehicle moved, while [Brys et al. 2014; Pham et al. 2013; Wiering 2000]
       consider the waiting time from the time the vehicle enters the road network.

    · Volume. Volume of a lane is defined as the number of vehicles on the lane, which equals to the sum of
       queuing vehicles and moving vehicles on the lane.

    · Delay. Delay of a vehicle is defined as the time a vehicle has traveled within the environment minus the
       expected travel time (which equals the distance divided by the speed limit).

    · Speed. The speed of a vehicle is used to measure how fast the vehicle travels, which could be largely
       influenced by a pre-defined speed limit. Most literature uses a speed score, which is calculated by vehicle
       speed divided by the speed limit.

    · Phase duration. Phase duration of the current phase is defined as how long the current phase has lasted.
    · Congestion. Some studies take the congestion of the outgoing approach into account for effective learning

       for the cases of congestion and no congestion. The congestion of a lane can be defined either as an indicator
       (0 for no congestion and 1 for congestion) or the level of congestion, which equals to the number of vehicles
       divided by the maximum allowed vehicles on the lane.
    · Positions of vehicles. The positions of vehicles are usually integrated as an image representation, which is
       defined as a matrix of vehicle positions, with '1' indicates the presence of a vehicle on a location, and '0'
       the absence of a vehicle on that location [Mousavi et al. 2017; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018].
    · Phase: The phase information is usually integrated into the state through an index of the current phase in
       the pre-defined signal phase groups[El-Tantawy et al. 2013; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018].

   There are also some variants of these elements in state representation. These elements can be defined on
vehicle level as an image representation with the position of vehicles [van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018]), on lane
level by summing or averaging over all vehicles on corresponding lanes [Wei et al. 2018].

   Recently, there is a trend of using more complicated states in RL-based traffic signal control algorithms in the
hope of gaining a more comprehensive description of the traffic situation. Specifically, recent studies propose
to use images [Mousavi et al. 2017; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018] to represent the state, which results in a
state representation with thousands or more dimensions. However, learning with such a high dimension for state
often requires a huge number of training samples, meaning that it takes a long time to train the RL agent. And
more importantly, longer learning schedule does not necessarily lead to significant performance gain, as the
agent may have a more difficult time extracting useful information from the state representation.

   4.2.2 Reward Functions. A reward defines the goal in a reinforcement learning problem. Equivalently, we
can think of RL as an approach of optimization towards the objective, and this objective is specified as the
reward function in the RL context. At each decision point, the agent takes action on the environment, and the
environment sends a single numerical value called the reward to the agent. The agent's objective is to maximize
the total reward it receives over the long run.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                    A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :17
                             Table 5. Factors in reward functions

Element          References

Queue length     [Abdoos et al. 2011a, 2014; Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Balaji et al. 2010; Cahill et al. 2010;
                 Chin et al. 2011; Chu et al. 2019; Isa et al. 2006; Khamis and Gomaa 2012; Khamis et al.
                 2012; Kuyer et al. 2008; Mannion et al. 2016; Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011; Salkham
                 et al. 2008; Steingrover et al. 2005; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2019b, 2018; Wiering
                 2000; Wiering et al. 2004a,b; Xiong et al. 2019; Zang et al. 2020; Zheng et al. 2019a,b]

Waiting time     [Bakker et al. 2010; Brys et al. 2014; Chu et al. 2019; Mannion et al. 2016; Nishi et al.
                 2018; Pham et al. 2013; Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al.
                 2018; Xu et al. 2013]

Change of delay  [Arel et al. 2010; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010, 2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Mousavi
                 et al. 2017]

Speed            [Casas 2017; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018]

Number of stops [van der Pol 2016]

Throughput       [Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Cahill et al. 2010; Salkham et al. 2008; Wei et al. 2018; Xu
                 et al. 2013]

Frequency of signal [van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018]
change

Accident avoidance [van der Pol 2016]

Pressure         [Chen et al. 2020; Wei et al. 2019a]

   In the traffic signal control problem, although the ultimate objective is to minimize the travel time of all
vehicles, travel time is hard to serve as an effective reward in RL for several reasons. First, the travel time of a
vehicle is influenced not only by the traffic signals, but also by other factors like the free-flow speed of a vehicle.
Second, optimizing the travel time of all vehicles in the network becomes especially harder when the destination
of a vehicle in unknown to the traffic signal controller in advance (which is often the case in the real world).
Under such circumstances, the travel time of a vehicle can only be measured after it completes its trip when
multiple actions have been taken by multiple intersections in the network. Therefore, the reward function is
usually defined as a weighted sum of the factors in Table 5 that can be effectively measured after an action:

    · Queue length. The queue length is defined as the sum of queue length L over all approaching lanes, where
       L is calculated as the total number of waiting vehicles on the given lane. Similar to the definition of queue
       length in Section 4.2.1, there are different definitions on a "waiting" state of a vehicle. Minimizing the queue
       length is equivalent to minimizing total travel time.

    · Waiting time. The waiting time of a vehicle is defined as the time a vehicle has been waiting. Similar to the
       definition of waiting time in Section 4.2.1, there are different definitions on how to calculate the waiting
       time of a vehicle. A typical reward function considers the negative value of the waiting time experienced
       by the vehicles.

    · Change of delay. The change (saving) in the total cumulative delay is the difference between the total
       cumulative delays of two successive decision points. The total cumulative delay at time t is the summation
       of the cumulative delay, up to time t, of all the vehicles that are currently in the system.

                                                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:18 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

    · Speed. A typical reward takes the average speed of all vehicles in the road network. A higher average speed
       of vehicles in the road network indicates the vehicles travel to their destinations faster.

    · Number of stops. A reward can use the average number of stops of all vehicles in the network. Intuitively,
       the smaller the number of stops, the more smoothly the traffic moves.

    · Throughput. The throughput is defined as the total number of vehicles that pass the intersection or leave
       the network during a certain time interval after the last action. Maximizing the throughput also helps to
       minimize the total travel time of all vehicles, especially when the road network is congested.

    · Frequency of signal change. The frequency of signal change is defined as the number of times the signal
       changes during a certain time period. Intuitively, the learned policy should not lead to flickering, i.e.,
       changing the traffic signal frequently, as the effective green time for vehicles to pass through the intersection
       might be reduced.

    · Accident avoidance. There are also some studies that have special considerations for accident avoidance.
       For example, there should not be many emergency stops. Furthermore, jams or would-be collisions should
       be prevented.

    · Pressure of the intersection. In [Wei et al. 2019a], the pressure of an intersection is defined as the sum
       of absolute pressure of every traffic movement. Intuitively, a higher pressure indicates a higher level of
       imbalances between the number of incoming lanes and outgoing lanes.

   There are also some variants of these factors to measure the immediate reward after an action. The reward
could be defined as the values of the factors at certain decision points or defined as the difference between the
corresponding total cumulative values over a certain period. Since most of these factors are a result of a sequence
of actions and the effect of one action can hardly be reflected, whether to use these factors as the original value
or as their difference still remains to be discussed.

   Although defining reward as a weighted linear combination of several factors is a common practice in existing
studies, there are two concerning issues with these ad-hoc designs in the traffic signal control context. First, there
is no guarantee that maximizing the proposed reward is equivalent to optimizing travel time since they are not
directly connected in transportation theory. Second, tuning the weights for each reward function component is
rather tricky, and minor differences in the weight setting could lead to dramatically different results. Although
the factors mentioned in Table 5 are all correlated with travel time, different weighted combinations of them
yield very different results. Unfortunately, there is no principled way yet to select those weights.

   4.2.3 Action Definitions. Now there are mainly four types of actions as shown in Table 6:
    · Set current phase duration. Here, the agent learns to set the duration for the current phase by choosing
       from pre-defined candidate time periods.
    · Set cycle-based phase ratio. Here, the action is defined as the phase split ratio that the signal will set for
       the next cycle. Usually, the total cycle length is given, and the candidate phase ratio is pre-defined.
    · Keep or change the current phase in a cycle-based phase sequence. Here, an action is represented as a
       binary number, which indicates the agent decides to keep the current phase or change to the next phase.
    · Choose the next phase. Decide which phase to change to in a variable phase sequence, in which the phase
       sequence is not predetermined. Here, the action is the phase index that should be taken next. As a result,
       this kind of signal timing is more flexible, and the agent is learning to select a phase to change to without
       assumptions that the signal would change cyclically.

4.3 Learning Approaches
There are varied algorithmic frameworks for RL methods from different perspectives. Depending on whether to
learn the state-transition function or not, an RL method can be categorized as a model-based or model-free method,

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                   A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :19
                                 Table 6. Action definitions

Action               References

Set current phase du- [Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Xu et al. 2013]
ration

Set phase split      [Abdoos et al. 2011a, 2014; Balaji et al. 2010; Casas 2017; Chin et al. 2011]

Keep or change       [Brys et al. 2014; Mannion et al. 2016; Pham et al. 2013; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al.
                     2018]

Choose next phase    [Arel et al. 2010; Bakker et al. 2010; Cahill et al. 2010; Chen et al. 2020; Chu et al. 2019;
                     El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010, 2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Isa et al. 2006; Khamis
                     and Gomaa 2012; Khamis et al. 2012; Kuyer et al. 2008; Mousavi et al. 2017; Nishi et al.
                     2018; Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011; Salkham et al. 2008; Steingrover et al. 2005; Wei
                     et al. 2019a,b; Wiering 2000; Wiering et al. 2004a,b; Xiong et al. 2019; Zang et al. 2020;
                     Zheng et al. 2019a,b]

respectively. Depending on whether to learn the value function or to explicitly learn the policy parameter, an RL
method can be categorized as a value-based or policy-gradient method, respectively (and the combination of these
two is an actor-critic method). Depending on whether the functions, policies, and models are learned through
tables with one entry for each state (or state-action pair) or through parameterized function representation, an
RL method can be categorized as a tabular or approximation method, respectively.

        Table 7. Model-based and model-free methods in RL-based traffic signal control methods

                     References                                    Strengths

Model-based methods  [Cahill et al. 2010; Khamis and Gomaa 2012; Khamis Models the state transitions,
Model-free methods
                     et al. 2012; Kuyer et al. 2008; Steingrover et al. 2005; explores the state space effi-

                     Wiering 2000; Wiering et al. 2004a,b]         ciently by planning and im-

                                                                   proves convergence speed.

                     [Abdoos et al. 2011a, 2014; Arel et al. 2010; Aslani No need to handcraft/pre-
                     et al. 2017, 2018b; Bakker et al. 2010; Balaji et al. 2010; train transition models,
                     Brys et al. 2014; Casas 2017; Chen et al. 2020; Chin learns the models directly
                     et al. 2011; Chu et al. 2019; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai with the policy.
                     2010, 2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Isa et al. 2006;
                     Mannion et al. 2016; Mousavi et al. 2017; Nishi et al.
                     2018; Pham et al. 2013; Prashanth and Bhatnagar
                     2011; Salkham et al. 2008; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al.
                     2019a,b, 2018; Xiong et al. 2019; Xu et al. 2013; Zang
                     et al. 2020; Zheng et al. 2019a,b]

   4.3.1 Model-based vs. model-free methods. Depending on the modeling philosophy of RL, literature [Arulku-
maran et al. 2017; Kaelbling et al. 1996] divides current RL methods into two categories: model-based methods

                                                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:20 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

and model-free methods. For a problem with large state and action space, it is usually difficult to conduct millions
of experiments to cover all the possible cases. Model-based methods try to model the transition probability
among states explicitly (i.e., learning Equation (12) or (17)), which can be used to sample the environment more
efficiently (agents can acquire data samples according to this transition probability). Concretely, given this model,
we will know which state each action will take the agent to. In contrast, model-free methods directly estimate
the reward for state-action pairs and choose the action based on this. Hence, model-free methods can be used
even the transition probability is hard to model.

   In the context of traffic signal control, to develop a model-based model, it requires the transition probability
of the environment to be known or modeled, like the position, speed, and acceleration of all vehicles, and the
operations of all the traffic signals. However, since people's driving behavior is different and hard to predict.
Currently, most RL-based methods for traffic signal control are model-free methods, as is shown in Table 7.

   4.3.2 Value-based, policy-based vs. actor-critic methods. Depending on the different ways of estimating the
potential reward and select action, reinforcement learning methods can be categorized into the following three
categories, as is shown in summarized in Table 8:

                                                  Table 8. Value- and policy-based methods

              References                                             Strengths

Value-based   [Abdoos et al. 2011a, 2014; Arel et al. 2010; Bakker et al. 2010; Combines policy evaluation
Policy-based  Balaji et al. 2010; Brys et al. 2014; Cahill et al. 2010; Chen et al. (predicting the value of a pol-
              2020; Chin et al. 2011; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010, 2012; icy) and control (finding the
              El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Isa et al. 2006; Khamis and Gomaa best policy), easy to be un-
              2012; Khamis et al. 2012; Kuyer et al. 2008; Mannion et al. derstood through interpret-
              2016; Nishi et al. 2018; Pham et al. 2013; Salkham et al. 2008; ing the predicted values
              Steingrover et al. 2005; van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2019a,b,
              2018; Wiering 2000; Wiering et al. 2004a,b; Xu et al. 2013;
              Zang et al. 2020; Zheng et al. 2019a,b]

              [Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Casas 2017; Chu et al. 2019; Gen- Directly learns the policy

              ders and Razavi 2016; Mousavi et al. 2017; Prashanth and and optimizes with faster

              Bhatnagar 2011; Rizzo et al. 2019; Xiong et al. 2019]  convergence.

    · Value-based methods approximate the state-value function or state-action value function (i.e., how reward-
       ing each state is or state-action pair is), and the policy is implicitly obtained from the learned value function.
       Value-based methods, including Q-learning [Abdoos et al. 2011b; Chin et al. 2011], and DQN [van der Pol
       2016; Wei et al. 2018], directly model the state-values or state action values (e.g., under the current traffic
       situation, how much average speed increase/decrease will take into effect if one action is conducted). In
       this way, the state and reward can be directly fed into the model without extra processing. However, these
       methods are usually combined with an -greedy action selection methods and hence will result in a nearly
       deterministic policy when  finally decays to a small number (i.e., it is deterministic which action will be
       conducted under certain states). This may cause the agent to stuck in some unseen or ill-represented cases
       without improving. In addition, these methods can only deal with discrete actions because it requires a
       separate modeling process for each action.

    · Policy-based methods directly update the policy (e.g., a vector of probabilities to conduct actions under
       specific state) parameters along the direction to maximize a pre-defined objective (e.g., average expected

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                             A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :21

       reward). Policy-based methods, try to learn a probability distribution of different actions under a certain
       state. The advantage of policy-based methods is that it does not require the action to be discrete. Besides, it
       can learn a stochastic policy and keep exploring potentially more rewarding actions. Actor-Critic is one of
       the widely used methods in policy-based methods. It includes the value-based idea in learning the policy
       for the action probability distribution, with an actor controls how our agent behaves (policy-based), and
       the critic measures how good the conducted action is (value-based). Actor-Critic methods in traffic signal
       control [Aslani et al. 2018a, 2017; Mousavi et al. 2017; Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011] utilize the strengths
       of both value function approximation and policy optimization, have shown excellent performance in traffic
       signal control problems.

   4.3.3 Tabular methods and approximation methods. For small-scale discrete reinforcement learning problem
in which the state-action pairs can be enumerated, it is a common practice to use a table to record the value
functions, policies, or models. However, for a large-scale or continuous problem (state or action is continuous), it
is not realistic to enumerate all the state-action pairs. In this case, we need to estimate the value function, policy,
or model using an approximation function of the state and action.

                 Table 9. Tabular methods and approximation methods

                 References                                          Strengths

Tabular methods  [Abdoos et al. 2011a; Balaji et al. 2010; Brys et al. 2014; Efficient to search the opti-
                 Cahill et al. 2010; Chin et al. 2011; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai mal policy
Approximation    2010, 2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Isa et al. 2006; Khamis
methods          and Gomaa 2012; Khamis et al. 2012; Kuyer et al. 2008;
                 Pham et al. 2013; Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011; Salkham
                 et al. 2008; Steingrover et al. 2005; Wiering 2000; Wiering
                 et al. 2004a,b; Xu et al. 2013]

                 [Abdoos et al. 2014; Arel et al. 2010; Aslani et al. 2017, Handles the high dimen-
                 2018b; Bakker et al. 2010; Casas 2017; Chen et al. 2020; Chu sion of state/action space
                 et al. 2019; Genders and Razavi 2016; Mannion et al. 2016; and generalizes well to un-
                 Mousavi et al. 2017; Nishi et al. 2018; van der Pol 2016; explored situations.
                 Wei et al. 2019a,b, 2018; Xiong et al. 2019; Zang et al. 2020;
                 Zheng et al. 2019a,b]

   In the problem scenario of signal control, earlier methods use simple state features like levels of congestion
(which can be converted to discrete state values) and employ tabular Q-learning [Abdulhai et al. 2003; El-Tantawy
and Abdulhai 2010] to learn the value function. These methods thus, cannot scale up to a large state space for
complicated scenarios in traffic signal control. Also, tabular methods will treat samples with similar features as
two completely different states, which will decrease the efficiency of utilizing samples in training. To solve these
problems, recent studies propose to apply function approximation using continuous state representation[Abdoos
et al. 2014; Arel et al. 2010; Arulkumaran et al. 2017; Bazzan and Klügl 2014; Brys et al. 2014; El-Tantawy and
Abdulhai 2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Khamis and Gomaa 2012; Mannion et al. 2016; van der Pol 2016; Wei
et al. 2018]. The function approximation could be achieved by multiple machine learning techniques, like tile
coding [Albus 1971] or deep neural networks. These methods can utilize the samples with similar state values
more efficiently and deal with more informative features with continuous ranges, e.g., the position of vehicles.

                                                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:22 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

The categorization of RL-based traffic signal control methods in terms of tabular or approximation is summarized
in Table 9.

4.4 Coordination Strategies
Coordination could benefit signal control for multi-intersection scenarios. Since recent advances in RL improve
the performance on isolated traffic signal control [van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018], efforts have been performed
to design strategies that cooperate with MARL agents. Liturature [Claus and Boutilier 1998] categorizes MARL
into two classes: Joint Action Learners and Independent Learners. Here we extend this categorization for the
traffic signal control problem, as is shown in Table 10.

    · Global single agent. A straightforward solution is to use one central agent to control all the intersec-
       tions [Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011]. It directly takes the state as input and learns to set the joint actions
       of all intersection at the same time. However, this method can result in the curse of dimensionality, which
       encompasses the exponential growth of the state-action space in the number of state and action dimensions.

    · Joint action modeling. [Kuyer et al. 2008] and [van der Pol 2016] consider explicit coordination mechanisms
       between learning agents using coordination graphs, extending [Wiering 2000] using max-plus algorithm.
       They factorize the global Q-function as a linear combination of local subproblems: Q^ (o1, . . . , oN ,a) =
       i,jQi,j (oi , oj , ai , aj ), where i and j corresponds to the index of neighboring agents.

    · Independent RL. There are also a line of studies that use individual RL agents to control the traffic signals
       in the multi-intersection network [Abdoos et al. 2011a; Balaji et al. 2010; Brys et al. 2014; Cahill et al.
       2010; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010; Mannion et al. 2016; Pham et al. 2013; Salkham et al. 2008]. In these
       methods, each intersection is controlled by an RL agent which senses part of the environment and adapt
       (or react) to it accordingly and eventually form several subgroups of synchronization.
       ­ Without communication. These approaches do not use explicit communication to resolve conflicts.
          Instead, the observation of agent i is defined on the local traffic condition of intersection i. In some
          simple scenarios like arterial networks, this approach has performed well with the formation of several
          mini green waves. However, when the environment becomes complicated, the non-stationary impacts
          from neighboring agents will be brought into the environment, and the learning process usually cannot
          converge to stationary policies if there are no communication or coordination mechanisms among
          agents [Nowe et al. 2012]. In highly dynamic environments, an agent might not have the time to perceive
          a change and adapt to it before the environment has already changed again.
       ­ With communication. While using individual RL to control each agent in a multi-agent system can form
          coordination under simple environments, communication between agents can enable agents to behave
          as a group, rather than a collection of individuals in complex tasks where the environment is dynamic
          and each agent has limited capabilities and visibility of the world [Sukhbaatar et al. 2016]. It is especially
          important for traffic signal control in a real-world scenario where the intersections are in close proximity,
          and the traffic is highly dynamic. While some studies also add neighbor's traffic condition directly into
         oi , [Nishi et al. 2018; Wei et al. 2019b] proposes to use Graph Convolutional Network [Schlichtkrull
          et al. 2018] where cooperating agents learn to communicate amongst themselves. This method not only
          learns the interactions between the hidden state of neighboring agents and the target agent but also
          learn multi-hop influences between intersections.

4.5 Experimental Settings
In this section, we will introduce some experimental settings that will influence the performance of traffic signal
control strategies: simulation environment, road network setting, and traffic flow setting.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                             A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :23
                     Table 10. Different coordination methods for traffic signal control

Coordination Strategies Objective & Explanation References

Global single agent       maxaQ(s,a), where s is the [Casas 2017; Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011]
                          global environment state, a
                          is the joint action of all inter-

                          sections

Joint action modeling     maxai,aj i, jQi, j (oi , oj , ai , aj ), [El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2012; El-Tantawy
                          where oi and oj are the obser- et al. 2013; Kuyer et al. 2008; van der Pol

                          vation of two neighboring 2016; Xu et al. 2013]

                          agents i and j

Independent RL without    maxai iQi (oi , ai ), where oi   [Abdoos et al. 2011a; Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b;
communication             is the local observation of in-  Balaji et al. 2010; Brys et al. 2014; Cahill et al.
                                                           2010; Chen et al. 2020; Chu et al. 2019; Isa
                          tersection i, ai is the action   et al. 2006; Khamis and Gomaa 2012; Khamis
                          of intersection i                et al. 2012; Mannion et al. 2016; Pham et al.
                                                           2013; Salkham et al. 2008; Steingrover et al.
                                                           2005; Wei et al. 2019a; Wiering 2000; Wiering
                                                           et al. 2004a,b; Xiong et al. 2019; Zang et al.
                                                           2020; Zheng et al. 2019a,b]

Independent RL with com-  maxai iQi ((oi , Ni ), ai ),     [Arel et al. 2010; El-Tantawy and Abdul-
munication                where Ni is the neighbor-        hai 2010; Nishi et al. 2018; Wei et al. 2019b;
                          hood representation of           Zhang et al. 2019b]

                          intersection i, (oi , Ni )
                          is the function that mod-

                          els local observations

                          and the observations of

                          neighborhoods.

    · Simulation environment. Deploying and testing traffic signal control strategies involves high cost and
       intensive labor. Hence, simulation is a useful alternative before actual implementation. Simulations of
       traffic signal control often involve large and heterogeneous scenarios, which should account for some
       specific mobility models in a vehicular environment, including car following, lane changing, and routing.
       Since mobility models can significantly affect simulation results, the simulated model must be as close to
       reality as possible.

    · Road network. Different kinds of the road network are explored in the current literature, including synthetic
       and real-world road network. While most studies conduct experiments on the synthetic grid network, the
       scale of the network is still relatively small compared to the scale of a city.

    · Traffic flow. Traffic flow in the simulation can also influence the performance of control strategies. Usually,
       the more dynamic and heavier the traffic flow is, the harder for an RL method to learn an optimal policy.

   4.5.1 Simulation environment. Various publicly available traffic simulators are currently in use by the research
community. In this section, we briefly introduce some open-source tools used in the current traffic signal control
literature. Specifically, since RL-based methods require detailed state representation like vehicle-level information,

                                                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:24 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

most literature relies on microscopic simulation, in which movements of individual vehicles are represented
through microscopic properties such as the position and velocity of each vehicle. Other proprietary simulators
like Paramics 1 or Aimsun 2 will not be introduced here. For a detailed comparison of the open-source simulators,
please refer to [Martinez et al. 2011].

        Table 11. Different simulators used in literature for RL-based traffic signal control

Name Latest update References                                   Strengths

GLD 1.0 (Jan. 2005) Strengths [Bakker et al. 2010; Isa et al. 2006; Co-learning of vehicle navigation
                                      Khamis and Gomaa 2012; Khamis et al. and traffic signal control.
                                      2012; Kuyer et al. 2008; Prashanth and Bhat-
                                      nagar 2011; Steingrover et al. 2005; Wiering
                                      2000; Wiering et al. 2004a,b]

SUMO    1.1.0 (Dec. 2018)  [Chu et al. 2019; Mannion et al. 2016; Real-time visualization, various ve-

                           Mousavi et al. 2017; Nishi et al. 2018; hicle behaviour models, supportive

                           van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018]   built-on computational frameworks

                                                                for RL.

AIM     1.0.4 (Mar. 2017) [Brys et al. 2014; Pham et al. 2013]  Mixed (automated and human-like)
                                                                vehicle simulation.

CityFlow 0.1 (Mar. 2017)   [Chen et al. 2020; Wei et al. 2019a,b; Xiong Multi-thread simulation for large

                           et al. 2019; Zang et al. 2020; Zheng et al. scale traffic settings and multi-agent

                           2019a,b]                             reinforcement learning, driving be-

                                                                havior modelling.

Others  Paramics [Balaji et al. 2010; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010, 2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Xu et al. 2013],
        Aimsun [Abdoos et al. 2011a, 2014; Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Casas 2017],
        Matlab [Arel et al. 2010], QLTST [Chin et al. 2011], UTC [Salkham et al. 2008]

    · The Green Light District (GLD) 3. GLD is an open-source traffic flow simulator that can be used to evaluate
       the performance of AI traffic light controller algorithms and co-learning navigation algorithms for cars.
       Vehicles enter the network at edge nodes (i.e., one end of roads which is not connected with an intersection),
       and each edge node has a certain probability of generating a vehicle at each timestep (spawn rate). Each
       generated vehicle is assigned to one of the other edge nodes as a destination. The distribution of destinations
       for each edge node can be adjusted. There can be several types of vehicles, defined by their speed, length,
       and number of passengers.

    · The Autonomous Intersection Management (AIM) 4. AIM is a microscopic traffic simulator which mainly
       supports a Manhattan topology of North-South and East-West multi-lane roads joined by many intersections.
       Developed by the Learning Agents Research Group at the University of Texas at Austin, AIM supports
       vehicles to navigate, accelerate, and decelerate, as well as subtle details, including variable vehicle sizes.

1https://www.paramics-online.com/
2https://www.aimsun.com
3https://sourceforge.net/projects/stoplicht/
4http://www.cs.utexas.edu/ãim/

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                                   A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :25

· Simulation of Urban MObility (SUMO) 5. SUMO is an open-source program for traffic simulation, mainly
  developed by the Institute of Transportation Systems, located at German Aerospace Center. Among other
  features, it allows the existence of different types of vehicles, roads with several lanes, traffic lights, graphical
  interface to view the network and simulated entities, and interoperability with other applications at run-
  time through an API called TraCI. Moreover, the tool can be accelerated by allowing a version without a
  graphical interface. Also, it will enable importing real-world road networks from OpenStreetMap, and the
  vehicles can enter the system from any position in the network. SUMO also supports other upper-level
  computational frameworks for deep RL and control experiments for traffic microsimulation.

· CityFlow. CityFlow [Zhang et al. 2019a] is a multi-agent reinforcement learning environment for large
  scale city traffic scenarios. It supports real-world definitions for the road network and traffic flow and is
  capable of multi-thread simulation for city-wide traffic settings. It also provides APIs for reinforcement
  learning, which is suitable for tasks like traffic signal control and driving behavior modeling.

           Table 12. Different road network in literature for RL-based traffic signal control

           Intersections References

Synthetic < 10      [Abdoos et al. 2014; Mannion et al. 2016; Xu et al. 2013]
network             [Brys et al. 2014; Nishi et al. 2018; Pham et al. 2013; Wiering 2000]
                    [Arel et al. 2010; Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011; van der Pol 2016]

           10 - 20  [Bakker et al. 2010; Cahill et al. 2010; Isa et al. 2006; Kuyer et al. 2008]
                    [Khamis and Gomaa 2012; Steingrover et al. 2005; Wiering et al. 2004a,b]
                    [Khamis et al. 2012]

           >= 20    [Chu et al. 2019](25 intersections),[Abdoos et al. 2011a] (50 intersections)
                    [Wei et al. 2019b](100)

Real road  [Balaji et al. 2010](29 intersections), [Casas 2017](43 intersections),
network    [Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b](50 intersections), [Salkham et al. 2008](64 intersections),
           [El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013](59 intersections),
           [Zheng et al. 2019b](16 intersections), [Zheng et al. 2019a](5 intersections)
           [Wei et al. 2019a](16 intersections), [Wei et al. 2019b](196 intersections),
           [Chen et al. 2020] (2150 intersections)

   4.5.2 Road network. At a coarse scale, a road network is a directed graph with nodes and edges representing
intersections and roads, respectively. Specifically, a real-world road network can be more complicated than the
synthetic network in the road properties (like the position, shape, and speed limit of every lane), intersections,
traffic movements, traffic signal logic (movement signal phases). Table 12 summarizes the road network in
literature. While existing studies conduct experiments on different kinds of road networks, the number of
intersections in the tested network is mostly smaller than twenty.

   4.5.3 Traffic flow. In the traffic flow dataset, each vehicle is described as (o, t, d), where o is the origin location,
t is time, and d is the destination location. Locations o and d are both locations on the road network. Table 13
summarizes the traffic flow utilized in the current studies. In the synthetic traffic flow data, either o, t or d could
be synthesized to generate uniform or dynamic changing flow in different levels of traffic.

5http://sumo.sourceforge.net

                                                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:26 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

Table 13. Traffic flow used in literature for RL-based traffic signal control. Traffic with arrival rate less than 500 vehi-
cles/hour/lane is considered as light traffic in this survey, otherwise considered as heavy.

                    References

Synthetic light uniform [Mousavi et al. 2017; Wei et al. 2018; Wiering 2000; Xu et al. 2013]
data

           dynamic  [Abdoos et al. 2011a, 2014; Chin et al. 2011; Mannion et al. 2016]
                    [Arel et al. 2010; Bakker et al. 2010; Kuyer et al. 2008; Salkham et al. 2008]
                    [Nishi et al. 2018; van der Pol 2016]

                                      [Brys et al. 2014; Pham et al. 2013; Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011]
           heavy uniform

                                      [Steingrover et al. 2005; Wei et al. 2018; Wiering et al. 2004a,b]

           dynamic  [Abdoos et al. 2011a; Arel et al. 2010; Balaji et al. 2010; Wei et al. 2018]
                    [Bakker et al. 2010; Khamis and Gomaa 2012; Khamis et al. 2012]
                    [Chu et al. 2019; Steingrover et al. 2005; Zheng et al. 2019a,b]

Real data  [Casas 2017; El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010, 2012; El-Tantawy et al. 2013; Wei et al. 2018]
           [Aslani et al. 2017, 2018b; Zheng et al. 2019a,b]
           [Chen et al. 2020; Wei et al. 2019a,b; Xiong et al. 2019; Zang et al. 2020]

4.6 Challenges in RL for Traffic Signal Control
Current RL-based methods have the following challenges:

   4.6.1 Design of RL formulation. A key question for RL is how to formulate the RL setting, i.e., the reward and
state definition. In existing studies [van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018; Wiering 2000], a typical reward definition
for traffic signal control is a weighted linear combination of several components such as queue length, waiting
time and delay. The state features include components such as queue length, number of cars, waiting time, and
current traffic signal phase. In recent work [van der Pol 2016; Wei et al. 2018], images of vehicles' positions on
the roads are also considered in the state.

   However, all of the existing work take an ad-hoc approach to define reward and state. Such an ad-hoc approach
will cause several problems that hinder the application of RL in the real world. First, the engineering details in
formulating the reward function and state feature could significantly affect the results. For example, if the reward
is defined as a weighted linear combination of several terms, the weight on each term is tricky to set, and a minor
difference in weight setting could lead to dramatically different results. Second, the state representation could be
in a high-dimensional space, especially when using traffic images as part of the state representation [van der Pol
2016; Wei et al. 2018]. With such a high-dimensional state representation, the neural network will need much
more training data samples to learn and may not even converge. Third, there is no connection between existing
RL approaches and transportation methods. Without the support of transportation theory, it is highly risky to
apply these purely data-driven RL-based approaches in the real physical world.

   Learning efficiency. While learning from trial-and-error is the key idea in RL, the learning cost of RL could be
unacceptable for complicated problems. Existing RL methods for games (e.g., Go or Atari games) usually require
a massive number of update iterations of RL models to yield impressive results in simulated environments. These
trial-and-error attempts will lead to real traffic jams in the traffic signal control problem. Therefore, how to learn
efficiently (e.g., learning from limited data samples, efficient exploration, transferring learned knowledge) is a
critical question for the application of RL in traffic signal control.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                                        A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :27
   Credit assignment. The credit assignment problem is one of the heatedly investigated problems in RL, which
considers the distribution of credits for success (or blame for failure) of an action [Sutton 1984]. In the traffic
signal control problem, the traffic condition is a consequence of several actions that traffic signal controllers have
been taken, which brings two problems: (1) one action may still have effect after several steps of actions; (2) the
reward at each timestamp is a result of the combination of consequent actions from several agents. Unlike in
Atari or Go games, where people sometimes assign the final score of an episode to all the actions associated with
this episode, the action in the traffic signal control problem may have an affecting time interval that may be
dynamically changing and needs to be further investigated.
   Safety issue. Making reinforcement learning agents acceptably safe in physical environments is another
important area for future research. While RL methods learn from trial-and-error, the learning cost of RL could be
critical or even fatal in the real world as the malfunction of traffic signals might lead to accidents. Therefore, how
to adopt risk management into RL helps prevent unwanted behavior during and after the learning process of RL.
5 CONCLUSION
In this article, we present an overview of traffic signal control. We first introduce some terms and objectives
in traffic signal control problem. Then we introduce some of the classical transportation approaches. Next we
review state-of-the-art RL-based traffic signal control methods from the perspective of the formulation of RL
agent (state, reward, action and ways of coordination) and their experiment settings. After that, we briefly discuss
some challenges for future research directions on RL-based traffic signal control methods. Hopefully, this survey
can provide a comprehensive view from both traditional transportation methods and reinforcement learning
methods and can bring the traffic signal control research into a new frontier.
A APPENDIX A
A.1 Summary of RL methods
RL-based traffic signal control methods are summarised in the Table 14.

                                                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                                                                                                                                                  :28 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                       Table 14. Overall comparison of RL-based traffic signal control methods investigated in this survey

Paper name                State Reward Action Model Method Approx Coope- Simula- Road                                                                                                                                                       Traffic
                                                                                                  ration tor net                                                                                                                            flow

[Abdoos et al. 2011a]     1         1    1       2  1  1  2  6                                                              3(50)                                                                                                           2,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
[Abdoos et al. 2014]      1         1    1       2  1  2  1  6                                                              1(9)                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            uk
[Balaji et al. 2010]      1,3       1    1       2  1  1  2  5                                                              4(29)                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
[Cahill et al. 2010]      3         1,7  3       1  1  1  2  1                                                              2(15)                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
[Chin et al. 2011]        1         1    1       2  1  1  -  7                                                              5                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
[El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2010] 1,3,4 3   3       2  1  1  3  5                                                              5                                                                                                               1,3,4,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
[El-Tantawy and Abdulhai 2012] 1    3    3       2  1  1  4  5                                                              4(59)                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
[El-Tantawy et al. 2013]  1,6,9 3        3       2  1  1  4  5                                                              4(59)                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
[Mannion et al. 2016]     1,6,9 1,2      2       2  1  2  2  2                                                              1(9)                                                                                                            2,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,4
[Salkham et al. 2008]     1,9       1,7  3       2  1  1  2  8                                                              4(64)                                                                                                           uk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
[Wei et al. 2018]         1,2,3,8,9 1,2,5,7,8 2  2  1  2  -  2                                                              5                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
[Xu et al. 2013]          1         2,7  4       2  1  1  4  4                                                              1(5)                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
[Brys et al. 2014]        1,6       2    2       2  1  1  2  3                                                              1(4)                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
[Pham et al. 2013]        1,6       2    2       2  1  1  2  3                                                              1(4)                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
[Wiering 2000]            8         2    3       1  1  1  2  1                                                              1(6)                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
[Prashanth and Bhatnagar 2011] 1,6  1,2  3       2  2  1  1  1                                                              1(5)                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
[Arel et al. 2010]        5         3    3       2  1  2  3  4                                                              1(5)                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
[Bakker et al. 2010]      7,8       2    3       2  1  2  2,4 1                                                             2(15)                                                                                                           5

[Isa et al. 2006]         7,8,10 2       3       2  1  1  2  1                                                              2(15)

[Kuyer et al. 2008]       8         2    3       1  1  1  4  1                                                              2(15)

[Wiering et al. 2004a]    8         2    3       1  1  1  2  1                                                              2(15)

[Wiering et al. 2004b]    8         2    3       1  1  1  2  1                                                              2(15)

[van der Pol 2016]        8         1,2,5,6,8 2  2  1  2  4  2                                                              1(4)

[Khamis and Gomaa 2012]   8         1    3       1  1  1  2  1                                                              2(12)

[Khamis et al. 2012]      8         1    3       1  1  1  2  1                                                              2(12)

[Mousavi et al. 2017]     8         3    3       2  2  2  -  2                                                              5

[Casas 2017]              3,4       5    1       2  2  2  1  6                                                              4(43)

[Aslani et al. 2017]      1,3,9 1,7      4       2  2  2  2  6                                                              4(50)

[Aslani et al. 2018b]     1,3,9 1,7      4       2  2  2  2  6                                                              4(50)

[Nishi et al. 2018]       1,4       2    3       2  1  2  3  2                                                              1(6)

[Chu et al. 2019]         1,2       1,2  3       2  2  2  2  2                                                              3(25)

[Zheng et al. 2019b]      1,9       1    3       2  1  2  2  2                                                              4(16)

[Zheng et al. 2019a]      1,9       1    3       2  1  2  2  2                                                              4(5)

[Wei et al. 2019a]        3,9       9    3       2  1  2  2  9                                                              4(16)

[Wei et al. 2019b]        1,9       1    3       2  1  2  3  2                                                              4(48)
            Table 15. Overall comparison of RL-based traffic signal control methods investigated in this survey

Paper name  State Reward Action Model Method Approx Coope- Simula- Road                                          Traffic
                                                                                 ration tor net                  flow

[Zang et al. 2020] 1,9 1   3            2  1  2  -  9  4(16)                                                     4
                                                                                                                 4
[Xiong et al. 2019] 1,9 1  3            2  1  2  -  9  4(5)                                                      5
                                                                                                                 5
[Chen et al. 2020] 3,9 9   3            2  1  2  2  9  4(16)                                                     5
                                                                                                                 4
[Rizzo et al. 2019] 2 7    3            2  1  2  3  2  4(1)

[Wang et al. 2019] 1,2 1   2            2  1  2  3  4  4(4)

[Zhang et al. 2019b] 1,2,3 1,2,5,7,8 2  2  1  2  3  2  3(36)

   State: 1. Queue; 2. Waiting time; 3. Volume; 4. Speed; 5. Delay; 6. Elapsed time; 7. Congestion; 8. Position of vehicles; 9. Phase; 10.
Accident; 11. Pressure

Reward: 1.Queue; 2. Waiting time; 3.Delay; 4. Accident; 5. Speed; 6. Number of stops; 7. Throughput 8. Frequency of signal change; 9.
Pressure

Action: 1. Phase split; 2. phase switch; 3. phase itself; 4 phase duration.
Model: 1. Model-based; 2.Model-free.
Method: 1. Value-based; 2. Policy-based
Approx: 1. Tab; 2. Approx.
Cooperation: 1. Single; 2. IRL wo/ communication; 3. IRL w/ communication; 4. Joint action.
Simulation: 1. GLD; 2. SUMO; 3. AIM; 4. Matlab; 5. Paramics; 6. Aimsun; 7. QLTST; 8. UTC 9. CityFlow
Road net: 1. Synthetic <10; 2. Synthetic 11-20; 3. Synthetic >=21; 4. Real 5. Single intersection
Traffic flow: 1. Synthetic light uniform; 2. Synthetic light dynamic; 3. Synthetic heavy uniform; 4. Synthetic heavy dynamic; 5. Real-world
data
                                                                                                                                                                                  A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :29

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:30 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This is acknowledgement.

REFERENCES

Monireh Abdoos, Nasser Mozayani, and Ana LC Bazzan. 2011a. Traffic light control in non-stationary environments based on multi agent
   Q-learning. In ITSC. IEEE.

Monireh Abdoos, Nasser Mozayani, and Ana LC Bazzan. 2011b. Traffic light control in non-stationary environments based on multi agent
   Q-learning. In ITSC. IEEE.

Monireh Abdoos, Nasser Mozayani, and Ana LC Bazzan. 2014. Hierarchical control of traffic signals using Q-learning with tile coding. Applied
   intelligence 40, 2 (2014), 201­213.

Baher Abdulhai, Rob Pringle, and Grigoris J Karakoulas. 2003. Reinforcement learning for true adaptive traffic signal control. Journal of
   Transportation Engineering 129, 3 (2003), 278­285.

James S Albus. 1971. A theory of cerebellar function. Mathematical Biosciences 10, 1-2 (1971), 25­61.
Itamar Arel, Cong Liu, T Urbanik, and AG Kohls. 2010. Reinforcement learning-based multi-agent system for network traffic signal control.

   IET Intelligent Transport Systems 4, 2 (2010), 128­135.
Kai Arulkumaran, Marc Peter Deisenroth, Miles Brundage, and Anil Anthony Bharath. 2017. A brief survey of deep reinforcement learning.

   arXiv preprint (2017).
Mohammad Aslani, Mohammad Saadi Mesgari, Stefan Seipel, and Marco Wiering. 2018a. Developing adaptive traffic signal control by

   actor­critic and direct exploration methods. In Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers-Transport. Thomas Telford Ltd, 1­10.
Mohammad Aslani, Mohammad Saadi Mesgari, and Marco Wiering. 2017. Adaptive traffic signal control with actor-critic methods in a

   real-world traffic network with different traffic disruption events. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies 85 (2017), 732­752.
Mohammad Aslani, Stefan Seipel, Mohammad Saadi Mesgari, and Marco Wiering. 2018b. Traffic signal optimization through discrete and

   continuous reinforcement learning with robustness analysis in downtown Tehran. Advanced Engineering Informatics 38 (2018), 639­655.
Bram Bakker, M Steingrover, Roelant Schouten, EHJ Nijhuis, LJHM Kester, et al. 2005. Cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning of

   traffic lights. (2005).
Bram Bakker, Shimon Whiteson, Leon Kester, and Frans CA Groen. 2010. Traffic light control by multiagent reinforcement learning systems.

   In Interactive Collaborative Information Systems. Springer.
PG Balaji, X German, and Dipti Srinivasan. 2010. Urban traffic signal control using reinforcement learning agents. IET Intelligent Transport

   Systems 4, 3 (2010), 177­188.
Ana LC Bazzan and Franziska Klügl. 2014. A review on agent-based technology for traffic and transportation. The Knowledge Engineering

   Review 29, 3 (2014), 375­403.
Tim Brys, Tong T Pham, and Matthew E Taylor. 2014. Distributed learning and multi-objectivity in traffic light control. Connection Science 26,

   1 (2014), 65­83.
Vinny Cahill et al. 2010. Soilse: A decentralized approach to optimization of fluctuating urban traffic using reinforcement learning. In

   Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), 2010 13th International IEEE Conference on. IEEE, 531­538.
Noe Casas. 2017. Deep deterministic policy gradient for urban traffic light control. arXiv preprint (2017).
Chacha Chen, Hua Wei, Nan Xu, Guanjie Zheng, et al. 2020. Toward A Thousand Lights: Decentralized Deep Reinforcement Learning for

   Large-Scale Traffic Signal Control. In AAAI.
Yit Kwong Chin, N Bolong, Soo Siang Yang, and KTK Teo. 2011. Exploring Q-learning optimization in traffic signal timing plan management.

   In Computational Intelligence, Communication Systems and Networks (CICSyN), 2011 Third International Conference on. IEEE, 269­274.
Tianshu Chu, Jie Wang, Lara Codecà, and Zhaojian Li. 2019. Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning for Large-scale Traffic Signal Control.

   arXiv preprint (2019).
Caroline Claus and Craig Boutilier. 1998. The dynamics of reinforcement learning in cooperative multiagent systems. AAAI/IAAI 1998 (1998),

   746­752.
CNN. 2019. Alibaba's 'City Brain' is slashing congestion in its hometown. https://edition.cnn.com/2019/01/15/tech/

   alibaba-city-brain-hangzhou/index.html. (January 2019).
Seung-Bae Cools, Carlos Gershenson, and Bart DâHooghe. 2013. Self-organizing traffic lights: A realistic simulation. In Advances in

   applied self-organizing systems. Springer, 45­55.
The Economist. 2014. The cost of traffic jams. https://www.economist.com/blogs/economist-explains/2014/11/economist-explains-1.

   (November 2014).
Samah El-Tantawy and Baher Abdulhai. 2010. An agent-based learning towards decentralized and coordinated traffic signal control. In

   Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), 2010 13th International IEEE Conference on. IEEE, 665­670.
Samah El-Tantawy and Baher Abdulhai. 2011. Comprehensive analysis of reinforcement learning methods and parameters for adaptive traffic

   signal control. Technical Report.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
                                                                       A Survey on Traffic Signal Control Methods · :31

Samah El-Tantawy and Baher Abdulhai. 2012. Multi-agent reinforcement learning for integrated network of adaptive traffic signal controllers
   (MARLIN-ATSC). In ITSC. IEEE, 319­326.

Samah El-Tantawy, Baher Abdulhai, and Hossam Abdelgawad. 2013. Multiagent reinforcement learning for integrated network of adaptive
   traffic signal controllers (MARLIN-ATSC): methodology and large-scale application on downtown Toronto. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
   Transportation Systems 14, 3 (2013), 1140­1150.

Nathan H Gartner, Susan F Assman, Fernando Lasaga, and Dennis L Hou. 1991. A multi-band approach to arterial traffic signal optimization.
   Transportation Research Part B: Methodological 25, 1 (1991), 55­74.

Wade Genders and Saiedeh Razavi. 2016. Using a deep reinforcement learning agent for traffic signal control. arXiv preprint (2016).
Carlos Gershenson. 2004. Self-organizing traffic lights. arXiv preprint (2004).
Balaji Parasumanna Gokulan and Dipti Srinivasan. 2010. Distributed geometric fuzzy multiagent urban traffic signal control. IEEE Transactions

   on Intelligent Transportation Systems 11, 3 (2010), 714­727.
PB Hunt, DI Robertson, RD Bretherton, and M Cr Royle. 1982. The SCOOT on-line traffic signal optimisation technique. Traffic Engineering &

   Control 23, 4 (1982).
PB Hunt, DI Robertson, RD Bretherton, and RI Winton. 1981. SCOOT-a traffic responsive method of coordinating signals. Technical Report.
Jiri Isa, Julian Kooij, Rogier Koppejan, and Lior Kuijer. 2006. Reinforcement learning of traffic light controllers adapting to accidents. Design

   and Organisation of Autonomous Systems (2006), 1­14.
Leslie Pack Kaelbling, Michael L Littman, and Andrew W Moore. 1996. Reinforcement learning: A survey. Journal of artificial intelligence

   research 4 (1996), 237­285.
Mohamed Abdelaziz Khamis and Walid Gomaa. 2012. Enhanced multiagent multi-objective reinforcement learning for urban traffic light

   control. In Machine Learning and Applications (ICMLA), Vol. 1. IEEE, 586­591.
Mohamed A Khamis, Walid Gomaa, and Hisham El-Shishiny. 2012. Multi-objective traffic light control system based on Bayesian probability

   interpretation. In ITSC. IEEE.
Peter Koonce et al. 2008. Traffic signal timing manual. Technical Report. United States. Federal Highway Administration.
Lior Kuyer, Shimon Whiteson, Bram Bakker, and Nikos Vlassis. 2008. Multiagent reinforcement learning for urban traffic control using

   coordination graphs. In Joint European Conference on Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases. Springer, 656­671.
Li Li, Ding Wen, and Danya Yao. 2014. A survey of traffic control with vehicular communications. IEEE TITS 15, 1 (2014).
John DC Little, Mark D Kelson, and Nathan H Gartner. 1981. MAXBAND: A versatile program for setting signals on arteries and triangular

   networks. (1981).
P Lowrie. 1990. SCATS­A Traffic Responsive Method of Controlling Urban Traffic. Roads and Traffic Authority, Sydney. New South Wales,

   Australia (1990).
PR Lowrie. 1992. SCATS­a traffic responsive method of controlling urban traffic. Roads and traffic authority. NSW, Australia (1992).
Patrick Mannion, Jim Duggan, and Enda Howley. 2016. An experimental review of reinforcement learning algorithms for adaptive traffic

   signal control. In Autonomic Road Transport Support Systems.
Francisco J Martinez, Chai Keong Toh, Juan-Carlos Cano, Carlos T Calafate, and Pietro Manzoni. 2011. A survey and comparative study of

   simulators for vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs). Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing (2011).
Seyed Sajad Mousavi, Michael Schukat, and Enda Howley. 2017. Traffic light control using deep policy-gradient and value-function-based

   reinforcement learning. Intelligent Transport Systems (2017).
Tomoki Nishi, Keisuke Otaki, Keiichiro Hayakawa, and Takayoshi Yoshimura. 2018. Traffic Signal Control Based on Reinforcement Learning

   with Graph Convolutional Neural Nets. In ITSC. IEEE, 877­883.
Ann Nowe, Peter Vrancx, and Yann MichaÃl De Hauwere. 2012. Game Theory and Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning.
Markos Papageorgiou, Christina Diakaki, Vaya Dinopoulou, Apostolos Kotsialos, and Yibing Wang. 2003. Review of road traffic control

   strategies. Proc. IEEE 91, 12 (2003), 2043­2067.
Tong Thanh Pham, Tim Brys, Matthew E Taylor, Tim Brys, et al. 2013. Learning coordinated traffic light control. In AAMAS.
L A Prashanth and Shalabh Bhatnagar. 2011. Reinforcement learning with average cost for adaptive control of traffic lights at intersections.

   ITSC (2011).
Stefano Giovanni Rizzo, Giovanna Vantini, and Sanjay Chawla. 2019. Time Critic Policy Gradient Methods for Traffic Signal Control in

   Complex and Congested Scenarios. In KDD.
Roger P Roess, Elena S Prassas, and William R McShane. 2004. Traffic engineering. Pearson.
As' ad Salkham, Raymond Cunningham, Anurag Garg, and Vinny Cahill. 2008. A collaborative reinforcement learning approach to urban

   traffic control optimization. In Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent
   Technology-Volume 02. IEEE Computer Society, 560­566.
Michael Schlichtkrull, Thomas N Kipf, Peter Bloem, Rianne Van Den Berg, Ivan Titov, and Max Welling. 2018. Modeling relational data with
   graph convolutional networks. In European Semantic Web Conference. Springer, 593­607.
David Schrank, Bill Eisele, and Tim Lomax. 2012. TTIâs 2012 urban mobility report. Texas A&M Transportation Institute. The Texas A&M
   University System 4 (2012).

                                                                                                        , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
:32 · Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Vikash Gayah, and Zhenhui Li

David Schrank, Bill Eisele, Tim Lomax, and Jim Bak. 2015. 2015 Urban Mobility Scorecard. (2015).
Chronis Stamatiadis and Nathan Gartner. 1996. MULTIBAND-96: a program for variable-bandwidth progression optimization of multiarterial

   traffic networks. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 1554 (1996), 9­17.
Merlijn Steingrover, Roelant Schouten, Stefan Peelen, Emil Nijhuis, Bram Bakker, et al. 2005. Reinforcement Learning of Traffic Light

   Controllers Adapting to Traffic Congestion.. In BNAIC. Citeseer, 216­223.
Aleksandar Stevanovic. 2010. Adaptive traffic control systems: domestic and foreign state of practice. Number Project 20-5 (Topic 40-03).
Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Rob Fergus, et al. 2016. Learning multiagent communication with backpropagation. In NeurlPS. 2244­2252.
Richard Stuart Sutton. 1984. Temporal credit assignment in reinforcement learning. (1984).
Dusan Teodorovi. 2008. Swarm intelligence systems for transportation engineering: Principles and applications. Transportation Research

   Part C: Emerging Technologies 16, 6 (2008), 651­667.
Elise van der Pol. 2016. Coordinated Deep Reinforcement Learners for Traffic Light Control. NeurlPS.
Pravin Varaiya. 2013. The max-pressure controller for arbitrary networks of signalized intersections. In Advances in Dynamic Network

   Modeling in Complex Transportation Systems. Springer, 27­66.
Yanan Wang, Tong Xu, Xin Niu, Chang Tan, Enhong Chen, and Hui Xiong. 2019. STMARL: A Spatio-Temporal Multi-Agent Reinforcement

   Learning Approach for Traffic Light Control. arXiv preprint (2019).
Hua Wei, Chacha Chen, Guanjie Zheng, Kan Wu, Vikash Gayah, Kai Xu, and Zhenhui Li. 2019a. PressLight: Learning Max Pressure Control

   to Coordinate Traffic Signals in Arterial Network. In KDD.
Hua Wei, Nan Xu, Huichu Zhang, Guanjie Zheng, Xinshi Zang, Chacha Chen, Weinan Zhang, Yanmin Zhu, Kai Xu, and Zhenhui Li. 2019b.

   CoLight: Learning Network-level Cooperation for Traffic Signal Control. In CIKM.
Hua Wei, Guanjie Zheng, Huaxiu Yao, and Zhenhui Li. 2018. IntelliLight: A Reinforcement Learning Approach for Intelligent Traffic Light

   Control. In KDD.
MA Wiering. 2000. Multi-agent reinforcement learning for traffic light control. In ICML.
MA Wiering, J van Veenen, Jilles Vreeken, and Arne Koopman. 2004a. Intelligent traffic light control. (2004).
Marco Wiering, Jilles Vreeken, Jelle Van Veenen, and Arne Koopman. 2004b. Simulation and optimization of traffic in a city. In Intelligent

   Vehicles Symposium, 2004 IEEE. IEEE, 453­458.
Business Wire. 2018. DiDi's Introduces Smart Transportation Solution for Traffic Management. https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/

   20180125006404/en/DiDi-Introduces-Smart-Transportation-Solution-Traffic-Management. (January 2018). Accessed: 2019-02-19.
Yuanhao Xiong, Guanjie Zheng, Kai Xu, and Zhenhui Li. 2019. Learning Traffic Signal Control from Demonstrations. In CIKM.
Lun-Hui Xu, Xin-Hai Xia, and Qiang Luo. 2013. The study of reinforcement learning for traffic self-adaptive control under multiagent markov

   game environment. Mathematical Problems in Engineering 2013 (2013).
Kok-Lim Alvin Yau, Junaid Qadir, Hooi Ling Khoo, et al. 2017. A Survey on Reinforcement Learning Models and Algorithms for Traffic Signal

   Control. ACM Computing Survey (2017).
Xinshi Zang, Huaxiu Yao, Guanjie Zheng, Nan Xu, Kai Xu, and Zhenhui Li. 2020. MetaLight: Value-based Meta-reinforcement Learning for

   Online Universal Traffic Signal Control. In AAAI.
Huichu Zhang, Siyuan Feng, Chang Liu, et al. 2019a. CityFlow: A Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning Environment for Large Scale City

   Traffic Scenario. In The WebConf.
Zhi Zhang, Jiachen Yang, and Hongyuan Zha. 2019b. Integrating independent and centralized multi-agent reinforcement learning for traffic

   signal network optimization. arXiv preprint (2019).
Guanjie Zheng, Yuanhao Xiong, Xinshi Zang, Jie Feng, Hua Wei, et al. 2019a. Learning Phase Competition for Traffic Signal Control. In CIKM.
Guanjie Zheng, Xinshi Zang, Nan Xu, Hua Wei, Zhengyao Yu, Vikash Gayah, Kai Xu, and Zhenhui Li. 2019b. Diagnosing Reinforcement

   Learning for Traffic Signal Control. arXiv preprint (2019).

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: January 2020.
