Automated Traffic Signal
 Performance Measures

                                                                                                          Every Day Counts (EDC), a State-based initiative
                                                                                                          of FHWA's Center for Accelerating Innovation,
                                                                                                          works with State, local, and private sector
                                                                                                          partners to encourage the adoption of proven
                                                                                                          technologies and innovations aimed at
                                                                                                          shortening and enhancing project delivery.
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

                                                     Notice
         This document is disseminated under the sponsorship of the U.S.
         Department of Transportation in the interest of information exchange.
         The U.S. Government assumes no liability for the use of the information
         contained in this document.
         The U.S. Government does not endorse products or manufacturers.
         Trademarks or manufacturers' names appear in this report only
         because they are considered essential to the objective of the
         document.

                                           Non-Binding Contents
         The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of
         law and are not meant to bind the public in any way. This document
         is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing
         requirements under the law or agency policies. However, compliance
         with applicable statutes or regulations cited in this document is
         required.

                                      Quality Assurance Statement
         The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) provides high-quality
         information to serve Government, industry, and the public in a manner
         that promotes public understanding. Standards and policies are used
         to ensure and maximize the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of
         its information. FHWA periodically reviews quality issues and adjusts its
         programs and processes to ensure continuous quality improvement.

COVER PHOTO CREDIT: SounderBruce, ©CC BY-SA 2.0 (https://www.flickr.com/photos/sounderbruce/22448121975)
Report Documentation

1. Report No.             2. Government Accession No.     3. Recipient's Catalog No.
FWHA-HOP-20-002
                                                          5. Report Date
4. Title and Subtitle                                     March 31, 2020
Automated Traffic Signals Performance Measures            6. Performing Organization Code:

7. Author(s)                                              8. Performing Organization Report No.
Charles R. Lattimer

9. Performing Organization Name and Address               10. Work Unit No.
Atkins North America, Inc.
482 South Keller Rd.                                      11. Contract or Grant No.
Orlando, FL 32810                                         DTFH6116D00048/0003

12. Sponsoring Agency Name and Address                    13. Type of Report and Period

United States Department of Transportation                14. Sponsoring Agency Code
Federal Highway Administration                            HOP
1200 New Jersey Ave. SE
Washington, DC 20590

15. Supplementary Notes
Eddie Curtis (FHWA ­ HOTM)

16. Abstract

Automated traffic signal performance measures (ATSPM) are an enabling technology that leverages
data collection and analysis for proactive traffic signal system management. This report highlights the
technical outreach undertaken by FHWA to assist States in meeting their Every Day Counts (EDC) Round 4
implementation objectives with respect to ATSPM. The outreach activities described in this report include use
cases, workshops, webinars, and case studies.

17. Key Words                                             18. Distribution Statement

Automated traffic signal performance measures (ATSPM),    No restrictions. This document is available
                                                          to the public through the National Technical
objectives-based performance, traffic signals, Every Day  Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161.
Counts.                                                   http://www.ntis.gov

19. Security Classif. (of this report) 20. Security Classif. (of this  21. No. of Pages 22. Price
                                                                                 64
Unclassified                page) Unclassified

Form DOT F 1700.7 (8-72)    Reproduction of completed page authorized.
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

 "Automated traffic signal performance
 measures (ATSPM) will revolutionize
 the management of traffic signals
 by providing the high-resolution
 data needed to actively manage
 performance."

      Source: EDC-4 Final Report

                                                                                                                                         PHOTO CREDIT: Adobe Stock
4
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

INSIDE

Every Day Counts: An Innovation Partnership

with States                                  1

What are Automated Traffic Signal Performance

Measures?                                    5

Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures

Before and After Every Day Counts-4          13

Sample Automated Traffic Signal Performance

Measures Use Cases                           19

Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures

Workshops                                    37

Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures

Webinars                                     43

Case Studies                                 47

                                                 i
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES
ii
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Every Day Counts: An
Innovation Partnership
with States

Every Day Counts focuses on accelerating project delivery and
deploying proven innovations that facilitate greater efficiency at State
and local levels to deliver the greatest value for tax dollars spent.

                                                                        E very Day Counts (EDC)
                                                                                 is a Federal Highway
                                                                                 Administration (FHWA)program
                                                                         that works in partnership with
                                                                         the American Association of State
                                                                         Highway and Transportation Officials
                                                                         (AASHTO) and other transportation
                                                                         stakeholders to foster a culture of
                                                                         innovation.1 It focuses on accelerating
                                                                         project delivery and deploying proven
                                                                         innovations that facilitate greater
                                                                         efficiency at State and local levels.
                                                                         EDC is designed to complement other
                                                                         initiatives promoting innovative
                                                                         technologies and practices, playing
                                                                         an important role in helping
                                                                         transportation agencies fulfill their
                                                                         obligation to the American people--
                                                                         deliver the greatest value from tax
                                                                         dollars spent.

PHOTO CREDIT:                                                           1 Section 1444 of the Fixing America's
                                                                              Surface Transportation Act (Public
https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/reports/edc4_final/        Law 114-94) (23 U.S.C. 101 note)

                                                                                                                                      1
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

As detailed in this report, round four of Every Day Counts                                               PHOTO CREDIT: FHWA
(EDC-4) championed the deployment of ATSPM through
a series of workshops, webinars, and case studies. These        Selected innovations share
activities raised awareness of the capabilities of ATSPM and    common goals:
facilitated the exchange of information between peers and       · Accelerating project
practitioners. FHWA has also been active in facilitating ATSPM
through State Transportation Innovation Councils (STIC) and       delivery
Accelerated Innovation Deployment (AID) grants, including       · Enhancing safety and
the following.
                                                                  durability of roads and
STIC Incentive Program: This program offers assistance            bridges
and funds to support the cost of standardizing innovative       · Reducing traffic
practices in a state transportation agency or by other public-    congestion
sector STIC stakeholders. Projects were awarded to Maine,       · Improving environmental
Missouri, North Carolina, and Louisiana to facilitate ATSPM       sustainability.
deployment. Tennessee received program funding for traffic
signal operations.                                                                               PHOTO CREDIT: Adobe Stock

AID Demonstration Program: This program provides
funding as an incentive for eligible entities to accelerate
the implementation and adoption of innovation in highway
transportation. AID Demonstration Grants for ATSPM
implementation include:

  }} Chittenden County Regional Planning Commission
       (CCRPC), VT: Implementation of Automated Traffic
       Signal Performance Measures along an Urban Traffic
       Signal Corridor: Real Time Traffic Information through
       Bluetooth Deployment ($996,000)

  }} City of Dover, NH: Creating a Benchmark for Traffic
       Signal Performance ($649,500)

  }} Kentucky Transportation Cabinet (KYTC), KY: Kentucky
       Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures
       Corridor Project (US 231 - Warren County / Richmond
       Bypass - Madison County) ($1,000,000)

2
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

  }} Missouri Department of Transportation (MoDOT), MO: Branson Automated Traffic Signal Performance
       Measures ($334,800)

  }} New Hampshire Department of Transportation (NHDOT), NH: Creating a Benchmark for Traffic Signal
       Performance ($519,600)

  }} Wyoming Department of Transportation, WY: Update of WYDOT's Traffic Signal System,
       communications and detection upgrades to support implementation of Automated Traffic Signal
       Performance Measures ($1,000,000)

For a comprehensive overview of all EDC-4 innovations, please visit the EDC-4 Innovations webpage and the
EDC-4 Final Report referenced at:
https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/edc_4/
https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/reports/edc4_final/

                                                                                                                                                          PHOTO CREDIT: FHWA

                                                                                                                                                                                    3
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

PHOTO CREDIT: Shutterstock
4
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

        What are
        Automated Traffic
        Signal Performance
        Measures?

                        Automated traffic signal performance measures are
                        a collection of data analytics tools and approaches
                        that automatically collect and convert high-resolution
                        traffic controller data into actionable performance
                        measures.

      T here are more than 330,000 traffic signals operating in the United
                                           States, and highway agencies typically retime these signals on a three-
                                           to five-year cycle at a cost of approximately $4,500 per intersection.1
                                  For many of these signals, citizen complaints are the primary measure of
                                  performance. Since performance data is not continuously collected at most
                                  intersections, intersection performance is simulated using software models
                                  based on periodic and manual traffic data collection, which adds cost and time
                                  to the signal retiming process.
                                  When agency professionals and consultants conduct traditional retiming
                                  projects, they must often perform an ad hoc comparison of before and after
                                  travel-time data to demonstrate the effectiveness of optimization efforts.
                                  Typically, no ongoing performance measurement capability exists and agencies
                                  must rely on citizen complaints to reactively detect maintenance or operational
                                  deficiencies. This lack of active performance management can compromise
                                  safety and efficiency and contribute to congestion.

                             Improving Traffic Congestion through Objectives-Based

                                              1 https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/edc_4/atspm.cfm

                                                                                                                                                                                    5
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

    Improving Traffic Congestion Through Objectives-based Solutions

     Traditional traffic signal retiming programs follow a linear, project-based process. The process starts
     with a triggering event, such as a customer complaint or an intersection reaching its three- to five-year
     retiming schedule. It then enters a design phase where volume and turning movement data is collected
     and analyzed with a simulation model. The resulting timing parameters are then implemented in the
     field, fine-tuned based on observations, and evaluated to determine the level of improvement. At this
     point, the process is complete and attention is only paid to the intersection if another triggering event
     occurs (sometimes years later).
     An objectives- and performance-based traffic signal program follows a more operations-based
     approach. After establishing traffic signal program objectives based on agency goals and context,
     performance measures are identified and continuously used to monitor the effectiveness of strategies
     and tactics. Corrective action does not wait until external triggers compel change. Instead, agencies
     initiate corrective actions based on performance measures and do so before external triggers come into
     play.
     Automated traffic signal performance measures (ATSPM) are an enabling technology that leverages
     data collection and analysis for proactive traffic signal system management. However, if the full benefits
     of ATSPM are to be realized, agencies should be willing to adopt business processes that institutionalize
     regular performance monitoring and that take prompt action when traffic signal issues are identified.

    Why use Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures?

     The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) promoted ATSPM in round four of Every Day Counts as a
     means to improve on traditional retiming processes through continuous performance monitoring. Using
     ATSPM, signal retiming efforts can be based directly on actual performance and continualy collected
     data, significantly reducing the level of effort, time, and cost involved in providing effective traffic signal
     operations.
     ATSPM consist of a high-resolution data-logging capability added to existing traffic signal infrastructure
     and data analysis techniques that provides agency professionals with information needed to proactively
     identify and correct deficiencies. They can then manage traffic signal maintenance and operations in
     support of their safety, livability, and mobility goals.

6
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

  Start                                        Tactics     Agency
                                                            Goals
                · Complaints
  Trigger · 3-5 Year Retiming                                               Context

                · Collect Data                 Strategies  Objectives
  Design · Design
                                                          Performance Measures
                · Install
                · Fine Tune                             Objectives-based
Implement · Evaluate

  Stop

       Traditional

Traditional vs. Objectives-based Solutions
                  Source: FHWA

                                PHOTOS CREDIT: FDOT (L) / FHWA (R)
                                                                                                                                          7
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

ATSPM technology is cost-effective, as it can be applied to a wide range of signalized intersections and
use existing infrastructure to the greatest extent possible. ATSPM can also support the validation of other
technologies and operational strategies, such as adaptive signal control and emerging connected vehicle
applications.

EDC Identified Benefits

(https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/edc_4/atspm.cfm)

}} Increased Safety. A shift to proactive                             2005             Indiana DOT began research into
    operations and maintenance practices can                                          signal performance measures (SPM)
    improve safety.
                                                                                        2012
}} Targeted Maintenance. To proactively             Pooled Fund Study TPF-5(258)
    identify and correct maintenance issues,     established to further develop SPMs   AASHTO selected SPMs as an
    ATSPM provide actionable information                                              Innovation Initiative technology
    needed to deliver high-quality service to
    customers, with significant cost savings to                                         2016
    agencies.

}} Improved Operations. Active monitoring               2013
    of signalized intersection performance
    allows agencies to monitor the equitable     Salt Lake City Signal Performance
    distribution of green time among vehicle,            Measures Workshop
    pedestrian, and bicycle movements and
    promote a smooth flow of vehicles along
    coordinated corridors.

Collaborative Research and
Implementation

ATSPM technology is the outcome of a

collaboration among FHWA, the American                                              ATSPMs featured as EDC-4
Association of State Highway and                                                              Innovation
Transportation Officials, state departments
of transportation (DOT), and academic            2017-18

research efforts. A Transportation Pooled                                             ATSPM technology timeline
Fund study, Traffic Signal Systems Operations                                                          Source: FHWA

and Management, led by the Indiana DOT with participation from the FHWA, 11 state DOTs, and the City of

Chicago, produced an open-source software option that provides a framework for continued innovation in

data analysis techniques.

8
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures in a Nutshell

ATSPMs automatically collect and convert high-resolution traffic controller data into actionable
performance measures. Data and performance measures are based on the Indiana DOT high-resolution data
enumerations,2 allowing them to be implemented with any type of traffic signal system that supports high-
resolution data logging.

Automated Data                                                  Useful Performance
Collection                                                      Information

   · Signal Controller                                          · Intersection
   · Probe Data                                                 · Corridor
                                                                · System
Data collection and performance information
Source: FHWA

An ATSPM system is typically made up of five basic components:

High-Resolution Controller: each time the traffic                           Server

signal controller receives an input (e.g. from a detector)  Communications                         Software
or generates an output (e.g. changes the phase of a
signal), the controller logs the event and its timestamp                    ATSPM

in a high-resolution data log. Events are logged using            Hi-res                     Detection
standardized codes called "enumerations."                       controller                   (optional)

Communications: a method of communication is                                Five basic ATSPM system components
                                                                                                          Source: FHWA

needed to move high-resolution traffic log information

from the controller to a central server for processing. Communications can either be persistent (like a fiber

connection), periodic (like a dial-up connection), or manual (data obtained by field technician).

Server: A central server is needed to store and aggregate the high-resolution traffic data.

Software: Special ATSPM software is used to analyze the aggregated high-resolution traffic data and produce
automated performance measures reports.

Detection (optional): Basic ATSPM functionality can be achieved without vehicle detection, such as analysis
of green times. However, intersections with vehicle detection can benefit from more advanced capabilities
such as phase utilization and offset optimization.

2 https://docs.lib.purdue.edu/jtrpdata/3/

                                                                                                               9
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

ATSPM Implementations

Three main types of ATSPM implementations have emerged to date.
}} Open-Source ATSPM Software: In this approach, agencies utilize open-source ATSPM software

    maintained by the Utah Department of Transportation and freely available on the United States
    Department of Transportation's Open Source Application Development Portal. Agencies provide and
    maintain storage for the high-resolution controller data used by the ATSPM software. Each agency is also
    responsible for hosting and configuring a local installation of the open-source ATSPM software.
}} Integrated ATSPM Solutions: In this approach, certain traffic controller vendors offer ATSPM capability
    in conjunction with their central traffic signal system management software. The cost of each integrated
    ATSPM solution varies per vendor.
}} Third-party ATSPM Solution: In this approach, a third-party provider hosts the ATSPM data (often in the
    cloud). Supplemental data collection equipment is often installed either in traffic signal cabinets or at a
    central location to collect high-resolution controller data and forward it to the third-party provider. This
    solution typically involves monthly or annual subscription fees.

10
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

   PHOTO CREDIT: Adobe Stock
                                                                                                                                                                                  11
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES
12
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Automated Traffic Signal
Performance Measures
Before and After Every
Day Counts-4

PHOTO CREDIT: Adobe Stock                      A utomated traffic signal performance measures
                                                        (ATSPM) are fueling a transformation in how
                                                        transportation agencies approach the management,
                                               operations, and maintenance of signalized intersections.
                                               The Federal Highway Administration's (FHWA) inclusion of
                                               ATSPMs in the fourth round of Every Day Counts (EDC-4)
                                               initiative catalyzed the transformation of traffic signal
                                               operations from traditional reactive, temporal, and
                                               complaint-based approaches to active, objectives- and
                                               performance-based approaches. The outcome of shifting
                                               traffic signal operations from reactive to proactive results
                                               in high-quality traffic signal operations that are consistent
                                               with the needs of communities and reflected in operations
                                               and maintenance objectives. ATSPMs empower agencies to
                                               provide signal operations that are safer, promote greater
                                               mobility, reduce congestion, and demonstrate fiscal
                                               responsibility.

                                               Deployments and Agency Participation

                                               Prior to EDC-4, the largest catalyst for ATSPM deployment
                                               was the American Association of State Highway and
                                               Transportation Officials Innovation Initiative led by the Utah
                                               Department of Transportation. It resulted in early ATSPM
                                               technlogy implementation by states and local agencies and
                                               established a community of peers ready to share
                                               implementation experiences. In Fall 2016, regional EDC
                                               summits were held to discuss the selected EDC-4

                                                                                                                                                 13
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

innovations (including ATSPM) and to find opportunities for implementation. After the summits, State
Transportation Innovation Councils (STIC), which bring together public and private stakeholders, met to
evaluate innovations and set goals for their deployment. STICs are active in all 50 States, the District of
Columbia (DC), Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Federal Lands Highway. In January 2017, eleven State
departments of transportation had implemented ATSPM to either the demonstration, assessment, or
institutionalized levels. The remaining 43 states (whose count included Federal Lands Highway, Puerto Rico,
U.S. Virgin Islands, and DC) reported ATSPM in the development stage or were not planning to implement. 1

    Institutionalized  Assessment        Demonstration
    Development
                       Not Implementing

                           United States map showing baseline (January 2017) for ATSPM deployment
    Source: EDC-4 Baseline Report, https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/reports/edc4_baseline/

At the conclusion of EDC-4 in December 2018, 31 states had achieved their implementation goals of
deploying ATSPM on either the demonstration, assessment, or institutionalized levels. The remaining 23
states reported ATSPM in the development stage or were not planning to implement. While the goal of
implementation by at least 35 states was not achieved, it is notable that during this two-year period the
percentage of states demonstrating, evaluating, or institutionalizing ATSPM crossed the 50 percent threshold
and reached 57 percent by December 2018.

1 https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/reports/edc4_baseline/

14
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

    Institutionalized                        Assessment         Demonstration
    Development
                                             Not Implementing

                          United States map showing final (December 2018) ATSPM deployment
    Source: EDC-4 Final Report, https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/reports/edc4_final/

35                                                              Software Options and Private Sector
                                                                Products
30                                           4
                                                                During the course of EDC-4 implementation,
25                                                              the number of ATSPM solutions have increased
                                                                significantly. Prior to EDC-4, UDOT developed an open-
20                                           11                 source ATSPM software solution with the support
                                                                of FHWA and the private sector. UDOT also hosted
15                                                              workshops to share their experience and support
                                                                ATSPM implementation by others. As EDC-4 unfolded,
10  2                                                           the number of private sector ATSPM solutions
                                                                increased and provided operating agencies with a
    3                                        16                 diverse family of options to support implementation.

5

                       6

0                                            Final (Dec 2018)

            Baseline (Jan 2017)

    Demonstration                Assessment  Institutionalized

Attainment of demonstration, assessment, or institutionalized
                   implementation across all States
                                Source: FHWA

                                                                                                        15
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

In parallel with EDC-4, FHWA has also worked to provide other opportunities for support to operating
agencies. This includes hosting the latest versions of the ATSPM open source code on the GitHub software
platform. FHWA has also worked to foster a community of ATSPM users and developers by hosting regular
User Development Forum webinars that provide a venue for developers to provide updates on code
enhancements and for users to learn from the deployment experience of their peers.
Private sector products featuring ATSPM capabilities have surged during the time-frame of EDC-4
implementation from four to 14. The largest growth in private sector ATSPM adoption has been the result
of traffic signal equipment manufacturers including ATSPM capabilities into their traffic signal management
software. Third-party data solutions companies have also entered the mix with vendor-agnostic platforms
that can integrate with existing systems regardless of controller manufacturer. Most third-party options
provide a subscription-based solution that hosts an agency's ATSPM data in the cloud. Agencies without large
in-house information technology resources may find cloud-based ATSPM solutions easier to implement since
most of the administration and storage is handled off-site by the third-party provider.

Guidance

Several lessons learned were identified by FHWA during the EDC-4 implementation initiative.
}} Technology alone cannot solve every problem with a traffic signal system. As part of outreach activities,

     care was made to present ATSPM as one component of an objectives- and performance-based traffic
     signal program. In spite of that effort, some agencies continue to view ATSPM as an automatic "quick fix"
     to traffic signal timing issues. Instead, for ATSPM to be effective, agencies should change their business
     process and staffing to encourage traffic signal optimization based on data-oriented triggers. Eddie
     Curtis, traffic operations specialist with the FHWA Office of Operations, likens ATSPM to the tire pressure
     light on a car dashboard. "The tire pressure light is a great thing, since it tells you when your pressure is
     low. However, it doesn't put the air in your tires for you--that's something you as a driver must do." In
     the same way, ATSPMs can serve as a warning light for traffic signal system issues. However, there should
     be a process in place for traffic engineers and technicians to take action based on the information they
     receive. ATSPMs by themselves will not improve traffic flow. However, ATSPMs give traffic engineers and
     technicians a much clearer picture of traffic system and intersection performance. This information
     allows them to find and address issues faster than was possible in the past. Good information together
     with taking proper action can lead to improved traffic operations.

16
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

}} A more comprehensive approach to local engagement could address under-reporting of ATSPM
     implementation. EDC-4 implementation goals for ATSPM were defined as state-level goals through
     coordination between FHWA and each State DOT. Implementation progress was tracked though
     information provided by State departments of transportation (DOT) to their local FHWA Division Office.
     Because of this, FHWA typically has good visibility into ATSPM initiatives conducted at the State level.
     However, the situation is more complicated in States with large numbers of local maintaining agencies.
     In some cases, implementation by local agencies may not be reported to the FHWA Division Office, so
     the status of implementation in the State may be under-reported. In other cases, a local agency may
     have a greater interest in ATSPM implementation than the State DOT. A State DOT may have established
     a "no implementation" goal, while at the same time a local maintaining agency may be operating a very
     mature ATSPM deployment. This State would not receive credit for implementation even though the
     state of the practice was being advanced. Because of these issues, a more comprehensive approach
     would be helpful in engagement with local maintaining agencies to avoid under-reporting of ATSPM
     implementation.

                                                                                                                                                                                  17
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

                                                                           PHOTO CREDIT: Pexels
18
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Sample Automated Traffic
Signal Performance
Measures Use Cases

A utomated traffic signal performance measures (ATSPM) tools are being adopted by a growing
         number of agencies across the nation because they are practical and easy to use. In this section,
         we will look at five use cases where ATSPM can be used by traffic engineers and technicians to solve
specific problems encountered on a regular basis. It is important to emphasize that ATSPM tools do not solve
problems by themselves; technicians and engineers must interpret ATSPM reports and take action. However,
with ATSPM as part of the workflow, engineers and technicians can often identify and solve problems faster
than they ever could before.

                                                                                                                                                                                       PHOTO CREDIT:PEXELS

USE CASE 1: Using Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures to Improve
                   Traffic Signal System Maintenance

One of the foundational elements of a modern traffic signal system is reliable vehicle detection. When
detectors malfunction or fail, intersection operation suffers. Detector malfunctions can occur at any time
of the day or night, so finding intermittent issues or overnight detection issues can be very difficult if an
agency only relies on in-person field device checks to find problems. ATSPM currently offers two solutions
that can be used to identify persistent detector issues: the ATSPM Watchdog Report and the Purdue Phase
Termination Diagram. These performance analysis tools allow troubleshooting to occur in advance of
dispatching maintenance crews, significantly reducing the time and level of effort involved in diagnosing
problems and completing repairs.

                                                                                                                                                                                   19
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

ATSPM Watchdog Report
The ATSPM Watchdog is a scheduled executable that runs daily to identify abnormal activity within the
high-resolution traffic signal database logs. These abnormalities are often symptoms of detector failures,
communication failures, or signal timing issues. When the following conditions are detected1, an email alert
is generated once per day:
}} No data: This condition reports phases with less than 500 records in the dataset over a 24-hour period

    (between midnight and midnight the previous day). Rationale: This condition can often identify failed or
    intermittent communication with the traffic signal.
}} Force offs: This condition reports phases with more than 90 percent force offs in at least 50 activations
    between 1:00 AM and 5:00 AM of the same day. Rationale: Since traffic is typically sparse between these
    times, the occurrence of force offs should be low. A high number of force offs often suggests a detector
    problem.
}} Max outs: This condition reports phases with more than 90 percent max outs in at least 50 activations
    between 1:00 AM and 5:00 AM of the same day. Rationale: Since traffic is typically sparse between these
    times, the occurrence of max outs should be low. A high number of max outs often suggests a detector
    problem.
}} Low advance detector counts: This condition reports phases with Purdue Coordination Diagram
    detectors that have less than 100 vehicles counted between 5:00 PM and 6:00 PM the previous day.
    Rationale: This time period normally represents one of the peak periods for daily traffic, so a low number
    of vehicle counts often suggests a detector problem.
}} Stuck ped: This condition reports phases with more than 200 pedestrian actuations between 1:00 AM
    and 5:00 AM the same day. Rationale: Pedestrian traffic is typically sparse between these times, so ped
    button activity should be low. A high number of ped actuations often suggests a stuck ped button.

  --The following signals had too many max out occurrences between 1:00 and 5:00
  3220 - I-75 SB & Jodeco Road - Phase 2 (Max Outs 100%)
  3398 ­ SR 7 & SR 3 - Phase 3 (Max Outs 96.7%)
  3441 - I-85 SB & Kia Boulevard - Phase 1 (Max Outs 100%)
  3441 - I-85 SB & Kia Boulevard - Phase 6 (Max Outs 100%)
  3441 - I-85 SB & Kia Boulevard - Phase 8 (Max Outs 95.5%)
  3449 - Kia Boulevard & Warner Road - Phase 2 (Max Outs 98.7%)
  3449 - Kia Boulevard & Warner Road - Phase 8 (Max Outs 97.3%)
  5023 - SR 4 BUS & Blackshear Avenue - Phase 8 (Max Outs 96.2%)
  5031 - SR 24 & SR 73 Bypass - Phase 6 (Max Outs 100%)
  5072 - SR 4 & SR 15 - Phase 4 (Max Outs 94.3%)

Sample ATSPM Watchdog Report, Georgia Department of Transportation

1 The default system values, which can be changed based upon the operational environment of the agency's signal
      system, are described in each condition.

20
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

                                                                                                                                                           PHOTO CREDIT: Pexels

Purdue Phase Termination Diagram
The Purdue Phase Termination Diagram is a graphic that displays the trigger event (Force-Off, Gap-Out,
or Max-Out) for each traffic signal phase at an intersection, typically over a 24-hour period. Time of day is
shown on the x-axis while each signal phase is shown in ascending order on the y-axis. Colored dots along
each horizontal phase grid line indicate the termination state of each phase at each time of day. Signal plans
are indicated by alternating blue and gray background shading.

  }} Green ­ Indicates a Gap-Out meaning that the phase ended prior to reaching its maximum green
       setting and remaining time could be available for other phases.

  }} Red ­ Indicates a Max-Out meaning that the phase termination was triggered by the phase reaching its
       maximum green setting, suggesting the phase may not have enough green time.

  }} Blue ­ Indicates a Force-Off for coordinated phases or an intersection operating with fixed phase
       timing (not-actuated) Force-Off is the normal trigger event for phase termination.

  }} Brown ­ Indicates that the pedestrian interval for the phase was active, which could hold the phase in
       the absence of vehicle demand.

In the example on the following page, courtesy of the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT), the
dark red bands in the left-most and right-most regions of the diagram denote frequent Max-Outs during the
overnight hours, suggesting detection failure. When vehicle detectors fail, the result is typically a continuous
call to phase, causing a Max-Out. This was confirmed by a field visit and the detectors were subsequently
replaced.

                                                                                                                                                                                  21
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Sample Purdue Phase Termination Diagram, GDOT

In another example, a high number of force offs of Phase 1 were observed during the free operation of the
signal during overnight hours, as shown in the two left panels of the Purdue Termination Diagram below. A
field inspection determined that detection was operating properly. However, a misconfigured parameter in
the timing plan was identified and corrected. The right two panels of the diagram show a return to normal
operation with no force offs occurring in the red circled time periods.

Sample Purdue Phase Termination Diagram, GDOT
22
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

USE CASE 2: Signal Timing

ATSPM tools can be very effective in quickly identifying signal timing issues and in providing the context
necessary to evaluate potential solutions. Since ATSPM visualizations are normally presented on a 24-hour
basis, these charts can spot trends and issues that may be more difficult for a technician making a short-
term site visit to see. The following examples show how two different ATSPM visualizations can be used to
improve the performance of splits and offsets of an intersection.

Purdue Coordination Diagram

As the name suggests, the Purdue Coordination Diagram is used to evaluate the operation of coordinated
signals and to identify signal timing parameters that could be modified to improve vehicle progression. The
x-axis lists the time of day, while the y-axis denotes beginning (green dots) and end (red dots) of a phase
for each cycle. A green line (resulting from consecutive phases starting at the same time during a plan)
running horizontally through the middle of the diagram denotes the activation of the green phase, while a
red line near the top shows where the red phase was activated. Black dots on the chart indicate arrivals of
individual vehicles at the intersection, typically at upstream detectors. Dots below the green line represent
vehicles arriving on red, while those above the green line represent vehicles arriving on green. Therefore,
intersections with good progression would have the majority of black dots above the green line.

In the Purdue Coordination Diagram shown below, the majority of vehicles arriving between 8:00 AM and
8:00 PM before offset optimization arrived on red as shown by the cloud of black dots in the bottom portion
of the diagram to the left. As shown in the diagram on the right, after the offsets were optimized, the majority
of black dots cluster above the green line, which indicates their arrival on green in the course of good
progression.

More arrivals on red                                       More arrivals on green

       Before Offset Optimization                          After Offset Optimization

Sample Purdue Coordination Diagram, Iowa State University                                                                          23
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Purdue Split Failure Diagram
Another tool that can be used to evaluate signal timing performance is the Purdue Split Failure Diagram. A
split failure occurs when a phase cannot serve all its demand within one cycle--if it takes a vehicle two or
more cycles to execute its movement at an intersection, a split failure has occurred. In the context of ATSPM,
split failures are detected by comparing the following two ratios:
}} The green occupancy ratio (GOR) measures detector occupancy during the green time of each cycle. A

    high GOR suggests dense traffic conditions, while a low GOR suggests sparse traffic or large gaps of time
    when no traffic is being served.
}} The red occupancy ratio during the first five seconds of red (ROR5) measures detector occupancy
    during the first five seconds of red time. A high ROR5 suggests dense traffic conditions at the beginning
    of the red phase, while a low ROR5 suggests sparse traffic or a gap in traffic at the beginning of the red
    phase.
When GOR and ROR5 are both high (typically 80 percent or higher), this suggests the occurrence of a split
failure. The Purdue Split Failure Diagram denotes each split failure with a vertical yellow line along with the
average GOR and ROR5 over the previous 15 minutes. The chart also lists the total number of split failures
over the entire day along with the number and percentage of split failures during each timing plan. This
information allows traffic engineers to easily determine which plans and phases are encountering the
highest number of split failures and where to direct their attention.

Sample Purdue Split Failure Diagram, Utah Department of Transportation

24
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

The Purdue Coordination Diagram also lists a parameter known as the arrival on green (AoG), which
measures the percentage of vehicles that arrive at the intersection during the green interval of a phase. AoG
can be tracked over time in an offline spreadsheet as a measure of intersection performance. In the example
below, the AoG decreased between June 2017 and May 2018 due to gradually increasing traffic demand.
Signal timing updates in June 2018 and July 2018 caused AoG to increase, which can be seen on the graph
below. Traffic engineers can use offline methods like this to track performance of intersections over time and
identify where timing plan adjustments could be beneficial.

                               AM % Arrivals on Green SIG#6146 - SR-73 & Ranches Parkway
                     50%

                     45%

% Arrivals on Green  40%

                     35%

                     30%

                     25%

                     20%

                          3/17 4/17 5/17 6/17 7/17 8/17 9/17 10/17 11/17 12/17 1/18 2/18 3/18 4/18 5/18 6/18 7/18

                                                      Monthly Average during AM Peak

Sample Sample Aggregate Data Percent of Vehicles Arriving on Green, Utah Department of Transportation

                                                                                                                   25
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

                                                                                                                                                  PHOTO CREDIT: Shutterstock

USE CASE 3: Safety

In addition to maintenance and signal timing activities, ATSPMs can also be used to identify intersection
safety concerns in the areas of red light running and pedestrian delay.
Yellow and Red Actuations
According to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety2, 890 people were killed in crashes that involved red-
light running, while another 132,000 people were injured in red-light running crashes. ATSPM can help traffic
engineers identify intersections with high occurrences of red-light running. One of the primary tools
available to assist in this effort is the Yellow and Red Actuations diagram. This chart identifies vehicles
approaching the intersection on yellow and red whose speed is too high to safely stop. The vehicle arrivals
are then plotted against yellow and red overlays that indicate whether the phase was in yellow or red
indication. This allows the traffic engineer to see whether vehicles passed through the intersection on yellow,
during the red clearance interval, or committed a severe red-light violation by entering the intersection while
a conflicting phase was active.
The Federal Highway Administration Highway Safety Engineering Studies: Procedural Guide document
provides a table that links crash patterns to probable causes and general countermeasures.3 This table
has been further adapted by the New York State Department of Transportation in their Highway Safety
Improvement Program (HSIP) manual.4 For each crash pattern observed, all probable causes should be
considered when selecting a general countermeasure. The Yellow and Red Actuations diagram can assist
engineers with evaluating insufficient signal timing and yellow phases that are too short. Per the General
Crash Pattern and Countermeasures table, countermeasures for a yellow phase that is too short can include
increasing the length of the yellow phase and providing an all-red clearance interval. The Yellow and Red
Actuations diagram can be used to document the frequency of red-light running instances before and after
adjustments to the length of yellow and all-red intervals. Other countermeasures that can improve signal
timing include providing progression through a set of signalized intersections and updating the signal timing
based on current traffic conditions. These improvements can be validated using ATSPM tools such as the
Purdue Coordination Diagram, Split Failure Diagram, and Phase Termination Diagram.

2 https://www.iihs.org/topics/red-light-running
3 https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/research/safety/00003/index.cfm
4 https://www.dot.ny.gov/divisions/operating/osss/highway-repository/Red%20Book.pdf
26
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Sample Yellow and Red Actuations Diagram, Utah Department of Transportation

Pedestrian Delay
ATSPM tools can also be used to help traffic engineers improve pedestrian safety. One method involves
identifying intersections with excessive pedestrian delay. When a pedestrian actuates a crossing button,
there is an expectation that they will receive a crosswalk indication in a reasonable amount of time.
Otherwise, they may infer that the crossing button is nonfunctional and attempt to cross traffic without
waiting for the pedestrian signal, in which case, the pedestrian is at greater risk of injury.
The Pedestrian Delay diagram contains several useful pieces of information that provides insight into
pedestrian activity at an intersection. Pedestrian delay is defined as the time between when a pedestrian
pushes the crosswalk button and when the walk indication is activated. The diagram shows the number of
pedestrian actuations per day in a graph denoting the time when each actuation occurred. Consistently high
numbers of pedestrian actuations during certain times of the day could lead traffic engineers to consider
operating the intersection in pedestrian recall during certain timing plans. The diagram also shows the
minimum, maximum, and average pedestrian actuation delay during the day, along with the pedestrian
delay for each actuation. The average pedestrian delay for each timing plan is also shown. While the
definition of "excessive pedestrian delay" is subjective, the Pedestrian Delay diagram can provide the traffic
engineer with empirical data to compare with citizen complaints and anecdotal information. This data gives
traffic engineers a better basis to support their decisions regarding pedestrian timing.

                                                                                                                                                                                  27
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Sample pedestrian delay diagram, Utah Department of Transportation
Sample pedestrian delay diagram, Utah Department of Transportation
28
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

USE CASE 4: Evaluating Adaptive Traffic Control

Because ATSPM methodologies operate as an observer in parallel with the traffic signal control system, they
can be used to monitor a wide variety of traffic control schemes, including adaptive systems. According
to Justin Effinger, a traffic engineer with Lake County, Illinois, most adaptive systems are only evaluated
at the beginning of their life span ­ right after they are installed. Without periodic evaluation, it is difficult
to determine if the adaptive systems are working as intended. ATSPM provides the data necessary to
objectively evaluate the performance of adaptive systems on an on-going basis and at very specific times of
the day.

One area where ATSPMs can assist with improving adaptive signal control involves the double serving of
side streets. When traffic on a major route is light, a side street can be double served to reduce queues and
delay. However, when traffic on the major route is heavy, double serving the side street would generally be
discouraged since it could lead to increased delays on the major route. The Purdue Coordination Diagram
and/or the Split Monitor can be used to identify situations where double serving is either occurring too often
or not enough.

Double Serving Occurs too Frequently

One example of double serving on a side street in Lake County, IL occurred at the intersection of Illinois

Route 176 (IL-176) and Hawley Street. IL-176 is the major route, while Hawley Street is the side street. A citizen

raised a concern that the signal was cycling too fast and causing backups on IL-176. Closed-circuit television

(CCTV) camera footage also confirmed a backup on IL-176. When the ATSPM Split Monitor was reviewed, the

traffic engineer noticed shorter

green times for IL-176 than would

be expected using engineering

judgment (as shown in the purple

rectangle below). Likewise,

when the engineer looked at the

InSync adaptive traffic control

software, a gap was noticed

between the coordinated tunnels,

which provided enough time to

double serve Hawley Street. In

this instance, double serving the

side street was not helpful, since

it leads to excessive delay on the    Excess double-serving of side street

major route.                        Sample ATSPM split monitor before closing gap, Lake County, IL

                                                                                                            29
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

          Excess double-serving of side street eliminated      The traffic engineer closed the
                                                               gap between the coordinated
Sample ATSPM split monitor after closing gap, Lake County, IL  tunnels to prevent double serving
                                                               of Hawley Street when IL-176 was
                                                               at its busiest. Double serving was
                                                               still allowed to occur during lighter
                                                               traffic conditions on IL-176. When
                                                               the Split Monitor was examined
                                                               after the change, longer green
                                                               times for IL-176 were consistently
                                                               observed, shown by the mostly
                                                               empty space in the purple region of
                                                               the chart to the left. CCTV cameras
                                                               also confirmed that the backup on
                                                               IL-176 was no longer present.

More Double Serving Could be Beneficial

The opposite conditions were occurring at the nearby intersection of Gilmer Road (major route) and
Freemont Center Road. When the traffic engineer looked at the Purdue Coordination Diagram, a large area
of white space was typically observed in the early portion of the green phase, which is shown by the purple
region in the chart below. Since black dots represent the arrival of vehicles, white space suggests unused
green time on the major route. That is, green time was being given to a relatively empty road when it could
potentially be allocated for use by the side street.

                                                     Sparse vehicle density suggests unused green time

                                                        Sample Purdue coordination diagram, Lake County, IL

30
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

In response to this observation, the traffic engineer modified adaptive control settings to increase the ability
to double serve Freemont Center Road. This allows the adaptive system to borrow green time from Gilmer
Road and provide it to Freemont Center Road when demand on the side street warrants. When the traffic
engineer examined the Purdue Coordination Diagram the following week, the amount of white space within
the cycle was reduced. The cycle time was also reduced in some cases, as it was allowed to shrink to fit the
actual traffic demand on the major route.
When borrowing green time from a major route to provide to the side street, traffic engineers want to make
sure that they are not inadvertently making conditions worse on the major route. One way they can confirm
this is by comparing the arrival-on-green percentage before and after the timing adjustment. In this example,
the arrival-on-green before and after the change was equal to 90 percent. This shows that, although
green time on the major route was reduced, it did not have a negative impact on the major route traffic
progression.

          Increased vehicle density suggests unused green time has been reduced

                                                        Sample Purdue coordination diagram, Lake County, IL

                                                                                                                                                                                  31
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

USE CASE 5: Extending ATSPM to Evaluate Program and Corridor Performance

Using ATSPM tools, traffic signal engineers can develop a deep understanding of how well intersections are
operating from a signal timing perspective. Using tools like the Purdue Coordination Diagram, engineers can
also get a sense of how well one intersection is coordinated with the previous intersection. However, getting
a picture of corridor-level performance can take some additional manual work in terms of pulling charts for
adjacent intersections and comparing them side-by-side.
At the time of this writing, the open source ATSPM software does not include corridor-level performance
metrics by default. Other agencies are working to extend ATSPM functionality by aggregating ATSPM metrics
into corridor-level reports. This use case will examine two examples.
Georgia Department of Transportation: Measurement, Accuracy, and Reliability Kit 1 Dashboard
The Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) manages major signalized arterials in the Atlanta
metropolitan area on a corridor level as part of their Regional Traffic Operations Program. Goals of this
multi-jurisdictional program include improving traffic flow on a corridor basis and helping local jurisdictions
identify and repair traffic signal issues. To monitor performance of each corridor, GDOT developed a
dashboard that aggregates ATSPM and other system performance metrics on an automated basis. This
dashboard, called the GDOT Measurement, Accuracy, and Reliability Kit (MARK 1), frees up valuable staff time
from creating corridor performance reports manually. This allows staff to focus their time on solving issues
instead of creating reports.
The MARK 1 dashboard, shown below, displays a wide range of information such as arterial performance
measures (e.g., arrivals on green, progression ratio, split failures, corridor volumes, and device and
communication uptime).

         Example of MARK 1 dashboard, Georgia Department of Transportation

32
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

The MARK 1 dashboard allows users to select tabs to choose monthly and quarterly summary reports,
detailed corridor performance output reports by intersection, equipment up-time reports, and watchdog
reports for intersections along a corridor (or for all monitored corridors). For example, the Arrivals on Green
performance report ranks all intersections along a corridor by their percent arrivals on green. This allows
traffic engineers to quickly identify problem intersections. They can then use traditional ATSPM tools to
investigate the problem intersection in more detail and identify the root cause of the problem.

Sample MARK 1 summary report, Georgia Department of Transportation

Activity reports     Sample MARK 1 activity report, Georgia Department of Transportation
like the one on
the right also
help traffic signal
staff track the
number and types
of maintenance
incidents reported
each month and
understand how
responsive they
were in resolving
those incidents.

                                                                                          33
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Pennsylvania Department of Transportation: Arterial Performance Metrics using Probe Data

The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) is approaching ATSPM from a different angle
than other agencies discussed in this report. Instead of building ATSPM performance measures from high-
resolution traffic controller data, they are exploring how third-party probe data can be used to evaluate
arterial performance on a corridor level. In addition, they are also exploring how some traditional ATSPM
charts can be reconstructed using third-party probe data.

Probe data refers to traffic data obtained from mobile connected data sources that transmit location
information back to a centralized system. Examples of such data sources include cell phones, automatic
vehicle location equipment installed in delivery fleet vehicles, and connected dashboard navigation devices.
Third-party traffic data providers, such as INRIX©, HERE©, and TomTom©, aggregate and anonymize this data
then use it to generate average speed and travel time data on roadway segments.

PennDOT, along with Purdue               Sample cumulative frequency diagram, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
University and the University of
Maryland Center for Advanced
Transportation Technology
Laboratory, is working to develop a
series of arterial performance metrics
tools and integrate them into the
Probe Data Analytics Suite. The first
of these is a travel time comparison
tool that compares arterial travel time
using a cumulative frequency diagram,
as shown to the right.

A user would pick a segment of road on an interactive map and then select the date and time ranges they
want to compare; the diagram would then be generated automatically. The cumulative frequency diagram
shows what percentage of observed travel times were at or below a certain duration. Consider a diagram
showing a travel time of 14 minutes with a cumulative frequency of 75 percent. This means 75 percent of the
observed travel times during the time period were at or below 14 minutes. In comparing two time periods, if
the graph shifts to the left travel times are improving. Likewise, a graph with a steeper slope indicates travel
times are more reliable (i.e. consistent) along a corridor. In practice, the cumulative frequency diagram can
be used to conduct a before-and-after comparison of signal timing plan adjustments. It can also be used to
identify if corridor travel times are degrading over time, thus warranting attention.

34
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Another tool PennDOT is working on can simultaneously compare the performance of multiple arterial
routes. This is done by plotting the median travel time as a percentage of the speed limit against the
interquartile range as a percentage of the speed limit travel time. Conceptually, this graph displays
normalized travel time on the x-axis and normalized travel time reliability on the y-axis. Points are plotted
on the graph from different time periods. If the trend of these points is down and to the left (moving closer to
the axes origin), travel times and reliability are trending better. If the trend is up and to the right, conditions
are trending worse. When several corridors are plotted at once, it is possible to see which corridors
experience improving conditions and which ones experience deteriorating traffic conditions. Based on this
knowledge, the traffic engineer can look more deeply into the root cause of the issue using more traditional
ATSPM tools.

                                    Median and IQR
                                    both got worse

                             Median and IQR
                             both got better

               Conceptual plotting of median travel time, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
                                                                                                                                                                                  35
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

                    Boise, ID                          Pocatello, ID
                                                                   Ames, IA
Seattle, WA                    Helena, MT
Portland, OR
                                                                             Lake County, IL
                                                                                         Buffalo, NY

                                                                                                      Trenton, NJ

San Franscisco, CA

    Phoenix, AZ                                                                            Knoxville, TN
                                                                                           Atlanta, GA

                    Denver, CO                         Baton Rouge, LA
                             Kansas City, MO
                                        St. Louis, MO

                    Map of the United States showing state where workshops were performed
                                                           Source: FHWA

36
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Automated Traffic Signal
Performance Measures
Workshops

From June 2017 to March 2019, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) traveled the nation delivering
peer-exchange workshops to champion the use of automated traffic signal performance measures
(ATSPM) strategies, along with objectives- and performance-based approaches to traffic signal program
management. The purpose of the workshops was to provide a catalyst for States and regions to advance to
the next stage of ATSPM implementation, described as national goals in the Everyday Counts round 4 (EDC-4)
ATSPM Implementation Plan. While the workshops were customized to the needs of each specific state or
region, workshops generally featured the following content:

                   Overview of objectives- and performance-based approaches to traffic signal program
                   management. In order to set the stage, an FHWA representative presented an overview
                   of objectives- and performance-based traffic signal program management. ATSPM is most
                   beneficial when used as a tool to support objectives- and performance-based traffic signal
                   timing. Speakers discussed how ATSPM can be used to determine if traffic signal timing
                   objectives are being achieved and how ATSPM can suggest strategies and tactics to further
                   improve system performance.

                   Overview of the development of ATSPM. Typically facilitated by Dr. Chris Day from Iowa
                   State University, this section introduced the history of ATSPM, the motivations behind
                   its development, required system components, and use case examples. Dr. Day played a
                   fundamental role in the development of ATSPM during his time at Purdue University. Focus
                   was paid primarily to the ATSPM Open Source Software, currently maintained by the Utah
                   Department of Transportation.

                   Peer experience. In this workshop section, peer agencies were invited to present their
                   experience using ATSPM to improve their traffic signal management programs. In order to
                   offer a balanced perspective, the peers invited were often a mixture of out-of-state agencies
                   with mature programs and local agencies that were early ATSPM adopters.

                                                                                                                                                                                  37
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

 PHOTO CREDIT: Adobe Stock/FHWA

                     Implementation alternatives. With the recognition that the open-source ATSPM
                     software is not the only ATSPM architecture, some workshops included a portion
                     dedicated to ATSPM software implementation alternatives. This normally included
                     several vendor presentations featuring examples of embedded ATSPM solutions or
                     cloud-based ATSPM solutions.
                     Challenge for action. At the conclusion of the workshops, the audience was
                     challenged to consider any barriers to ATSPM implementation that must be overcome
                     and to identify concrete short-term and long-term steps they could take to advance
                     implementation of ATSPM in their agency.

PHOTO CREDIT: Adobe Stock/Shutterstock

38
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Between June 2017 and March 2019, 17 workshops were held in 17 cities in 15 states, reaching over 750 total
participants.

ATSPM Workshops

Location         Date            Sponsoring Agencies   State/    Number of Presenters
Phoenix, AZ      June 8, 2017    Maricopa County      Regional  Participants

                                                      Regional  57  Eddie Curtis, FHWA

                                                                    Jamie Mackey, UDOT

                                                                    Howell Li, Purdue

                                                                    Shawn Gotfredson, Overland

                                                                    Park, KS

                                                                    Private Sector

MTC/San Francisco Bay August 7,  MTC                  Regional  68  Eddie Curtis, FHWA

Area             2017                                               Ed Fok, FHWA

                                                                    Jamie Mackey, UDOT

                                                                    Alan Davis, GDOT

                                                                    Jeff Jenq, Oz Engineering

                                                                    Rob Klug, Clark County, WA

                                                                    Private Sector

Atlanta, GA      August 23,      GDOT                 State     52  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
                 2017
                                                                    Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                                    University

                                                                    Jennifer Portanova, NCDOT

                                                                    Matt Luker, UDOT

                                                                    Rob Klug, Clark County, WA

                                                                    Shawn Gotfredson, Overland

                                                                    Park, KS

                                                                    Dan Farley, PennDOT

                                                                    Alan Davis, GDOT

Seattle, WA      November 15, WSDOT                   State     97  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
                 2017                                 State
                                                                    Karl Typolt, Transpo

                                                                    Shaun Quayle, Washington

                                                                    County, OR

                                                                    Jamie Mackey, UDOT

                                                                    Jeff Jenq, Oz Engineering

                                                                    Alan Davis, GDOT

                                                                    Private Sector

Baton Rouge, LA  December LADOT                                 19  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
                 13-14, 2017
                                                                    Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                                    University

                                                                    Howell Li, Purdue

                                                                    Alan Davis, GDOT

                                                                                               39
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

ATSPM Workshops (cont'd)

Location         Date          Sponsoring Agencies    State/    Number of Presenters
Denver, CO       January 23,                         Regional  Participants
                 2018          Denver Regional
Portland, OR                   Council of            Regional  35  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
Pocatello, ID    April 10-11,  Governments (DRCOG)
Boise, ID        2018          and CDOT                            Patricia Sergeson, FHWA
Helena, MT
Kansas City, MO  August 14,                                        Greg MacKinnon, DRCOG
                 2018
                                                                   Matt Luker, UDOT
                 August 16,
                 2018                                              Dan Farley, PennDOT

                 September                                         Alan Davis, GDOT
                 26, 2018
                                                                   Jeff Jenq, AZTech
                 October 23,
                 2018                                              Shawn Gotfredson, City of

                                                                   Overland Park, KS

                               Oregon Department of  State     23  Rick Denney, FHWA
                               Transportation
                                                                   Eddie Curtis, FHWA

                                                                   Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                                   University

                                                                   Darcy Bullock, Purdue

                                                                   University

                               Idaho Transportation  State     23  Rick Denney, FHWA
                               Department
                                                                   Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                                   University

                                                                   Dan Farley, PennDOT

                                                                   James Robertson, Lee

                                                                   Engineering

                               Idaho Transportation  State     30  Rick Denney, FHWA
                               Department
                                                                   Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                                   University

                                                                   Dan Farley, PennDOT

                                                                   James Robertson, Lee

                                                                   Engineering

                               Montana Department    State     25  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
                               of Transportation
                                                                   Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                                   University

                                                                   Derek Lyman and Spencer

                                                                   Palmer, VTrans

                                                                   Private Sector

                               Missouri Department   Regional  46  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
                               of Transportation
                                                                   Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                                   University

                                                                   Noel Forrester, City of

                                                                   Olathe, KS

                                                                   Shawn Gotfredson, Overland

                                                                   Park, KS

                                                                   Marc Lewis, Missouri DOT

                                                                   Sam Harris, GDOT

                                                                   Private Sector

40
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

ATSPM Workshops (cont'd)

Location       Date         Sponsoring Agencies   State/    Number of Presenters
St. Louis, MO                                    Regional  Participants
Knoxville, TN  October 25,  Missouri Department
               2018         of Transportation    Regional  41  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
Buffalo, NY
Chicago, IL                                                    Chris Day, Iowa State
Ames, IA
Trenton, NJ                                                    University

                                                               Shawn Gotfredson, Overland

                                                               Park, KS

                                                               Alan Davis, GDOT

                                                               Private Sector

               October 30, Tennessee Department  State     71  Rick Denney, FHWA

               2018         of Transportation                  Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                               University

                                                               Justin Effinger, Lake County

                                                               Illinois

                                                               Eric Itzel, City of Sevierville

                                                               David Sheely, City of

                                                               Cleveland

               November 28, NITTEC, New York     Regional  29  Rick Denney, FHWA

               2018         State Department of                Chris Day, Iowa State

                            Transportation                     University

                                                               Dan Farley, PennDOT

                                                               Joshua Hollingsworth,

                                                               Tallahassee, FL

                                                               Private Sector

               February 19, Lake County, IL      Regional  53  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
               2019
                                                               Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                               University

                                                               Justin Effinger, Lake County

                                                               DOT

                                                               Samuel Harris, GDOT

                                                               Private Sector

               February 21, Iowa DOT             State     22  Rick Denney, FHWA
               2019
                                                               Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                               University

                                                               Steve Gault, PennDOT

                                                               Shawn Gotfredson, Overland

                                                               Park, KS

                                                               Private Sector

               March 21,    ITS New Jersey       State     77  Eddie Curtis, FHWA
               2019
                                                               Chris Day, Iowa State

                                                               University

                                                               Dr. Thomas Brennan, The

                                                               College of New Jersey

                                                               Kelly McVeigh, NJDOT

                                                               Steve Gault, PennDOT

                                                                                        41
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

PHOTO CREDIT: Shutterstock
42
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Automated Traffic Signal
Performance Measures
Webinars

The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) hosted a six-part webinar series to familiarize participants with
technical aspects of automated traffic signal performance measures (ATSPM), how they fit into an objectives-
and performance-based management framework, and implementation options that fit a range of agency
capability and infrastructure situations. The National Operations Center of Excellence (NOCoE), Every Day
Counts newsletter and website, and the FHWA Local Public Agency website and newsletter promoted the
webinars. Held bimonthly, the webinars were free and open to all interested attendees, including state
and local agencies and the consulting community. Archives of each webinar session are publicly available
through the FHWA Office of Operations.

PHOTO CREDIT: Adobe Stock
                                                                                                                                                                                   43
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

 1 Webinar  Funding the Implementation of Traffic Signal Projects and ATSPM
 2 Webinar
 3 Webinar  [Webinar link]

44          February 22, 2018 1:00 ­ 2:45 PM ET

            This webinar provided an overview of funding mechanisms available to
            agencies to support traffic signal improvements, including ATSPM. In addition to
            providing a refresher on the process involved for accessing Federal-aid funds, the
            webinar shared experiences and lessons-learned from the state department of
            transportation, metropolitan planning organization, and local level. Participants
            learned appropriate funding methods to support projects such as signal retiming
            and infrastructure upgrades, and implementing new operational approaches like
            ATSPM.

            Moderator:                         Eddie Curtis, FHWA
            Presenters:
                                               Robert Wright, FHWA Office of Program Administration
                                               Raj Ponnaluri, Florida Department of Transportation
                                               Robert Rich, Metropolitan Transportation Commission
                                               Debbie Bauman, City of Albuquerque
                                               Paul Barricklow, Lee Engineering

            Traffic Signal Maintenance and ATSPM [Webinar link]

            Wednesday, April 25, 2018 1:00 ­ 2:30 PM ET

            This webinar featured examples of how agencies are using ATSPM to improve
            maintenance and asset management of their traffic signal systems. ATSPM
            visualizations allow technicians and traffic engineers to view an entire day's worth
            of detection information, phase terminations, and other traffic signal data at one
            time. Using these visualizations, agency staff can quickly spot detector failures,
            stuck pedestrian actuations, and other maintenance issues that negatively affect
            traffic signal performance.

            Moderator:                         Eddie Curtis, FHWA
            Presenters:
                                               Chris Day, Iowa State University
                                               Alan Davis, Georgia Department of Transportation
                                               Matt Luker, Utah Department of Transportation

            The Impact of ATSPM on the Design and Operation of Signalized
            Intersections [Webinar link]

            Thursday, June 21, 2018 1:00 ­ 2:30 PM ET

            This webinar discussed topics in traffic signal design and operations that agencies
            should consider when approaching an ATSPM deployment. Decisions made
            during the traffic signal design process, such as the use and placement of advance
            detection, can determine the ultimate capabilities of an ATSPM system. By making
            design decisions that are in alignment with an agency's goals and objectives,
            ATSPM strategies can become another tool to help improve traffic operations and
            signal maintenance.

            Note: The FHWA does not endorse or promote specific products that were
            presented within the context of these webinars.

            Moderator:                         Eddie Curtis, FHWA
            Presenters:
                                               Shaun Quayle, Washington County Oregon
                                               Sajad Shiravi, Miovision
                                               Farhad Pooran, Econolite
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

4 Webinar  Improving Signal Timing and Operations with ATSPM [Webinar link]

           Thursday, August 23, 2018 1:00 ­ 2:30 PM ET

           This webinar explored how ATSPM can be used to improve traffic signal timing
           and operations. ATSPM technology and strategies allow agencies to keep track of
           traffic signal performance on an ongoing basis. Instead of waiting for months for
           information from signal timing studies, agencies can respond to citizen complaints
           and operation issues within days and hours, saving agencies time and money. Our
           speakers presented practical examples of how ATSPM has been used to improve
           traffic signal timing within their agencies on a daily basis.

           Moderator:   Eddie Curtis, FHWA
           Presenters:
                        Christopher Day, Iowa State University
                        Rob KIug, Clark County Washington
                        Jamie Mackie, Utah Department of Transportation

5 Webinar  Software Investments and Options for ATSPM Deployment [Webinar link]

           Thursday, November 15, 2018 1:00 ­ 2:30 PM ET

           This webinar explored various software options available to agencies wishing to
           deploy ATSPM strategies. From open-source software platforms to vendor-specific
           software solutions, there have never been more options available to agencies
           looking to improve their traffic signal operations with ATSPM approaches. This
           webinar featured a range of speakers from the academic community, public sector,
           and vendor community that presented a representative spectrum of software
           solutions.

           Moderator:   Eddie Curtis, FHWA
           Presenters:
                        Steve Gault, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
                        Mark Taylor, Utah Department of Transportation
                        Rich Schmidt, Intelight

6 Webinar  ATSPM, Adaptive Signal Control Systems, and Connected Vehicle
           Applications [Webinar link]

           Thursday, January 24, 2018 1:00 ­ 2:30 PM ET

           This webinar explored the relationship between ATSPM, adaptive signal control
           systems, and signal phase and timing (SPaT)/connected vehicle applications.
           ATSPM is a simple and effective approach to monitor the performance of adaptive
           signal control systems in an objective manner. With the introduction of SPaT and
           connected vehicle integration on the horizon, ATSPM techniques can help agencies
           determine the effectiveness of these applications in increasing arrivals on green,
           increasing vehicle throughput, and other relevant traffic signal program objectives.

           Moderator:   Eddie Curtis, FHWA
           Presenters:
                        Justin Effinger, Lake County Division of Transportation
                        Aleks Stevanovic, Florida Atlantic University
                        Faisal Saleem and April Wire, Maricopa County, Arizona

                                                                                 45
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PENNDOT TRAFFIC SIGNAL PROGRAM OVERVIEW
    ent of TransCpaosertSattuidoines Pennsylvania DepartmentCoafseTrSatundsipeos rtation Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures
    TRAFFIC SIGNAL PROGRAM OVERVIEWUtah Departm Maricopa County, Arizona Case Studies Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures Automated Traf UDOT
       TRAFFICPOeSSrrTygfIrsoaaGtfnrefBmiimNcuzSaassAinitgnaicnoLneeansdlMsSSaTyPneYesradctoSeChsWmcuonTersloo"sleECaSrslemokCabeiMngwpgfsuoeoanaayilnrSrtbtbraeacthueitlflleweirfCiatlpoeeedyoMscenLAsTMrPottrseakrhhifa,APfarvvHloodtekfoTfmieue-gAofrtHOiaThSlormlcRcoyoiaPRtdtBMc1ruCayiS,ysapseg.Arks"tiltISenrgoraeLSenoiAdfnrcoFnloyoeuifIeatr-isTRrFe:fErilzmtmtUvdUOraiYeIaIzDe,etCtpalmCesuaiaOBaenoMoanrhTOsusrtecnuSauidsoaetsArtroaiInPocintenoMGoAenTuTddsAenRsoLdrmiUeAoThsssoNcEToekseasauWleEeStmAo:CnvRapfssncvhtPAcbfrekPuootlotteeegneIhOairistlhoUrTrmmohrrcipLMnnwn2ekeeefUstcDdUldoYoeeamf:ii,U/envndSoerO/tlgbCsoemoDegNierreSvYa,TspdecdgnAOwUeeaanEsm'esTySu.trnnsTDfuTdaPLhsAosrcdv'YyTsOiwsaeiAFTtveeipdTffsaydqAESe.dfooeu.e,BTidAPuTAmpctprFdMnaotMSoiTIRaHoracelSettSeLPiSi.uikggzerosipWnfSeSMApPgIalosatyvertuyTvrMrtenLvAEitsanLioutiFabci/CMeraiH.oaMYliot,SdcAelsonguzilasSenvlyeFugnadininmeeaAvnucarySethnPe-anaysssadHoI-ngutsestosRoeal.tMfdoerCeymaPteiectefAeadAl3sbcrgtprediki,aytdofacRttf,nA1pTAlemteeoEihhmybneiSyshSsAnpnpkmgrcreeseNemyaBPematgaeAIrprprwnUtoeoeeqTMlGreCrpsriaTIsaoweraarpoeaoDuroufLiaoPrrnfistncfnmtNnokaaeoviOnieeeuoocbthItttclrbaaoetsacedieeTarrTotechAtlicosepdddtnslsmneyhloMfilithYsuoeis/tdvusaaoooLanftfoeepsltserorevnnnrfnaadmrefotppeotnMo(afcdivcyPathadstoamlrreesieeR/letarteootunttdurifiedaiRLsstishaotooAidannkmoissaridfsepdEMtLisnfcerncAvOstclssivopTd:/aLlecieeetutussci/tloonnakesPe/ifphlil,wnabnvpevUa(aGauupcfglossloAaeaoRideseeygyaswdai4ardiodrThgnslroRetRlfrt,llvktsoyeeemliSioahncnldge2izoditacgPnIme,mAlagaaedtrlnyiTeUMnogretsltred,aaiFiMstatwsaDovoYf)snfoihusflfmoftnianOioiafinzinaooeplcrgrSeiuTrOfmdegnntc.tfeuedwhmstEsgatPppaat.yVettitiiaerkmlUoaLentrcarryoohhaisafoErrdtDniFnyfeg,ffe.tnfPsgjfPofgsaoORgyurrittihdPuocarnsc-eAftsyTaamrucVSemhrvdrtvsefn'sodprsscm/lSiaSeMaeeoigad.IesrutLnlptAThaMnrmiEiTtpweSnctetnoeuigclsThioecednitaeac.pfWanatprEvSigeedramotleslonnemmePmtuelsiaddSmrpniirl.MaoensluyaR/siodASinU,ien3g)nr,nsncTaekattDdMtadmiSrlhtetsinOiPeocaonooMtsEtrTbanva:faneeeNisllatcsmloateTufwefrnsetscountLMsLeoawnvaRegieslkd14,  TRAFFIC SIGNAL SYSTEMS CAPABILITY                                                               MATURITY                            SELF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPrgearSfnoyirzsmtaetamionBnscueasainMnnddeeTsWasescoPuhrrrkonefmcooelreoscnsgeetys  Level 1    RiskEALsctekanbvoliweshlleedd2,ged        ASSESSMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ad-Hoc,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            High Risk                                             MaLMneeaagvseuedreRldis3,k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Level 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Managed,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Low Risk

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Culture                                                                                                                                   

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAeyynTyncSFDyRrcypRoPeyToeOyAercayhMmdyoTuTPdteTCruigA'semuaosAociPSArfdrIcnnAfoapiouireMpniecPg.impnvprnnvsgpSdeMgprainitiPrmgcoriircrlonssadinsaoLraaypaalastaeCoaclnlEiltctasvlohAcnSaiahAhcoMdahynTtyvtersnneess,SPsetdospiwelEePaadadoAlemaemuMryNiiCnlDdneaesamBoigedCdyesTtgalIhesalrpoviAaLfipaneaoaabaamITtrniebsloTlastcaiIscrmllYiOiaab,iotntyatlelinecieeNnMono.l.sudntaPm.Pdteofeuyuenfrni:etnTanylrnDDaScdeOnoOlfsjnT-TopEs'hvbsouaaArmlustTaapiStmtitiPooionpMnnlTe'oss.moy(lPs:ehtenetntmtpneysyDd:a//lOoAclEoypSoTTysyswtlSy)t.layfaaPhasTnbbSwMuuSudPploatPprissaors.lnrdheilerhawmitoidrtaentistmnhisifm.agozgaetgetoiooninepmrltvnru.edegta/eiotirrntoshgettmovmrarniieargoaloiymnfdfhnfffrziaieaa-ececrmttlneiasstaoestihiinwgnlgoscednonlourfaakumotlltinloopeulootnqelsltw/ruitcf-oiioojnpounrlgm/rmttissrpesaodcennli/rlctcef.toeriosrmmnanaealadnscfuieerelmd(eAtTrSicPsM: )

    G fic Sig Culture                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
    eo nal P Collaboration
    Clark County, Washington Case Studies rgia Department of TranspCoasretaSttiuodnies Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures erformance Measures CLARTKRACOFTOPFrAUaerCSgIfrofToCylfNiavcaosbnSerSrtTSjikemiCrePzgsaBmtYIa·ClcntAaiMar·Guitomat·ocdm,nsTirstilorhtkvucraTaSWiNSeoirnpnMaoeneiCnsyPnieCDsnpmefrshscgAdaMMntfaAootgaseAeciybenaendscTeuvnreLufCm,drSodeeaPasePvaTnWdeetoriscatrahgWerrsgSAan:tltihRCoerslutaoeyneehnnagdoYauancnsrBx'ntbAeadspeeristhopCcspanSwkshoalimsIsldeuigpFprtbfeeosTnLreTtyieooleanleeioheneigFitgsllIsrmieEtpsunmarrtrtaysdTcpitIyxfestaortltieotMCeiosrvsehaiMYmnnaosanovercnftoNgtnadmrvaosen,hSSaAiruteTfci,unyanihyeeAelursypMeeydraAIoyaahtEyslngropdatCgcsrG-hytapienlvtpeTLewattisahhlTduliezbzeyryribaicovCAoerAnfamNHtAAeieoAitepoomAiSleSAelvamrvafydinoatsceuegrfraeprPene-ZeopedlieilemhprnAoHPaomaskuacalddptaroiapfcdopTRuaApllapnvp-hrrtifSac(eidMw(ehEl.Lefnsetr1,oditrIcrlaieRdkrrateDovToagMyBcontoccntsoaoeirailmaChnooSrnnzsPaomhtjaCtseacotalynaIieeCaauNe)nomhc,catclofceoaLolslRcltmcRlanafa-dVdohsteae)h.epSninhAfuttodtIeniecceiOaygpriccoaSsxbTottbpvnmfeseeigscrdrteor.PotystynetntoepyeriHttaeadiYeGisedfesomfoneneuyoTArldfifeomddstiuolfcmsoafrrtamggsneaARtrtepimcMomiaBsmircacroaoptahymcaniduellttairCa:Ahnfaagomsfuelhisi-IaagehtfnaAnotRsygiLPotrlrnv(RetsleopgMtlsinheaRetsfeiMaeuaoorTemsaiIpdpLonnkfmcEev,esAbTanrblrhnsoseAroUga.aaaaoettega:wioDmccOa/oplvlnlYrslrntkoi/ortbslleiitinruioRtwiseooleaaSpeeycidoitaofaaVatsepntlgrd)wwhhnosrehMnItnpdt,isetstsE2gloieTEirape.dainwchsivTifrheoandn,fninhsnloteatrsgneoeReYrpinhhwuaaegdpistvtarfrdDtpCreetihhaVfnahrsminriuicfrsSvtida.rafoenhaieeddimyaheaiffIcpisragituEoociodnEtctnSaepratlnipetSinwnreoeorrurssLm.og,xWgtomiumcl·lpratgcnafgBioean·oFee-wyslcselaolEislenmvaer.pt,oeu'stptvilcks/rGiinanACsueyttaanirnPetoseesnthclecplatasrrlmumrgut.erranSeesPetstotoe(rfAatbTnre.hSiote,n.eiolMhStvrookrdeeTLstZfmimMTTenrftaorrieMtnysdEehooodrfaCaawmETrntfhoensasimvf2rrereVefoanSsadAioTrtilmsirosagted4cstyceceoeuEuima.erAirSuhnemrrlwwhsnaod-odagm)eTantTmttd3cMRctlaaofpnctpnuha:ao,teiAiaSoeohssrznhhysanrrkccetemkm,TPritleeopocaEmeteenmliatmiSMAoszeespngaoclttgNihoPyisaasecssorbakntddrrMtl:sMeasster/t/aaittsaofeTetti/mmieodflia1odmsoooenefpofrvparuct4efiiopranmpgsnyervncicTye.miylvtmrsoyesya/steol,lrsaCi.ertseuofetmrnatptawsharnainaisoallismarn.pgSfatwoSot:rlkPcdesffaePiTislPiporitnfil/pnplenoaotrnsceloickhhhaesehce.laclgrrdnanig(tdpaeiaoedSeCvtolmeteAtoium.LtsnieoceiefspeoammsptuAaTfTgMteePos.ocnnsanGsLngroautAuSmTahnivohiopomtniitntontsnjwsmnoPTloSbereAaeauougvntiialgigauMRtSvPotcpnolllira/Treaedrriniioyotg,smePsadMicP4tnneaagSskts)n,ac'aaorenreMlm.siemrsPdselaocisninlderem.nsxyr,AaModhisdasmd'defcedmazasfTltobmespertrllntitsadSayoaweinittrvooonaimmodheamoPryaanbgefradticnditleMentsnttprjolrarhcuahdeswhaseddooitlgAenlicsliabtoshe(vrfpfnweMZcmtbytericpoietikeoattenrsuvTcohitraahemAadltlogeeearlMuierrersaxGtorncsdnhtsidinmaetiinlg.he.n)mt/.deoenndteMnaTRttolftRtapiersaahoeeizAaaerfulllricegli/rfngeZaiertftigiseicnagiiosTscooeo·s.ecnatnnn·/p(chanA·athacled·PTlt'oCsCr·PePSawnao·CudoRPav1nfmAoorereuaMiPdsgtAsrroignunpmalruk)tAupariibtrdaeodiveopbirpytnunlaajraaoriinup'srinscnlncsdtlltaospgsashrilaoaiqiotyotoadlecleottimeyiupcaitsiameanutnbnooeihchvtfplgs1ringaesaneihraneeelovnwtyetiierisadlinrotdgltnauodtaeedhieAeltleeranubbrhieeetdTGlnlgsamilsmyerSmescDrAiybslitPaaiaieradekeyOicTmMmvnneesaa(aaTgSxa.T,htneidraFapglcptaPtabauorotfeeoaobfeptMasirnrrncatlaesistgeesheS:ndiOwut/xr.cdine/ChgeedrDaltahPcatngeroerrmAateaeeareeaanpacnGltrdnnfspdPSahfeftvtsSDToiyleiwidzriAeicct·ysmtrtasOapReteemoh.s,·iuedttBtaltAveTclie·imAoheaalooomestTe·YIymAlns2unCtniltFLSce·Taiz.ocTCh0BrognspsPtuapl·SaFeIeapS1leeluagnrMTaaorpStlpp7PMIioadsuni.nndnaUpPwgloCrAMYibidIsbidntoedPghtben-WontToeoiuae8aaplrmaeTySvgssSiCrmdaGoeostscn5hesarid/yPuuslfttIeerlAiomcedttiarshaebkMGMDDlrniePhmoTntoiaetftehrronurrianeoeSme.imUinnNeOonpttbedvrtoAp,rPGruodcecetactelemeoglTrMaAtpaeTlDiorentinmuohnatreSrsehegiyaO/ttLcdnsneePdTdem)cynSreatfMTeaiooAentduisRdcSnttts'oeluslTtefoaeid:l-YsntoAaatSEtmcAtoyodiitnavpfPoSrnoTsFeafeeiatosMutlSgnlThassFukvteefPnisiteaeepmgEmTIsuiMttnlCryilnssdorMoaaisyeananAadpnntsslSlHgtelTteSssstLoiarolaAgemIp.poapefhdwoGGamoC-ponluRvlrHo:nitrsDotruosetNh.AoykcatdiejGb,tlGOnaem.tvaA1APplaDtgDcTienAisecsntAo'OL:nOsas-sl/naaanif/wntTsBtoTatnlcdPstyrdptceraftaisIDsoosoRaionryLfin.saffsslgtslhnliOgIivesotcSnnwTaievmttswotGamphaeoYr.sutdsoRseru"eeRiahocsadHwMkrtgThaonuAA.aElrghenctasLadcikvotAmMaodonfretvifbtoginilfv/lTowhpfiectesgotelhsneeoUhOEsmedscledsnyageoyu2,oseRysVgbsfdsihftPetbirAieInaEheersllTimeTmeomeatoRsSety.Ylen.ootP"rBwVhth,uCMotuGoaS1hIrrotrDsecqE,keEfwdewtubOWooeLsitiieeTonutc:FehlGktrh/ntiMlDetraoyAahepOnovnMLtealrSteTe/yegeiaterSssavtodeusterRcfEeyi/dlsk,S3SMENTLMLowaenRvaigsekedl,4

46
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Case Studies

The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) produced a series of case studies showcasing eight agencies
from across the nation that successfully implemented automated traffic signal performance measures
(ATSPM) approaches in their traffic signal operations programs. Care was taken to feature a range of agencies
with differing program sizes--from small counties to large State departments of transportation. A diverse
range of geographic locations was also included.
Each case study was two-to-three pages in length and began with an infographic that featured the number
of traffic signal program employees, traffic signals, miles of road operated by that agency, and the agency's
annual traffic signal program budget. The graphic also presented the agency's traffic signal systems
capability maturity self-assessment scores, allowing this information to be easily compared between case
studies. The infographic allows the reader to quickly identify peer agencies in terms of program size and
budget and be inspired by how peers utilized ATSPM to improve their traffic signal program. The case studies
then provide more specific information about how ATSPM approaches were adopted by each agency and the
benefits that were realized.

INDOT TRAFFIC SIGNAL PROGRAM OVERVIEW

TRAFFIC SIGNAL SYSTEMS CAPABILITY MATURITY SELF ASSESSMENT

                            Level 1       Level 2          Level 3                                                      Level 4

                              Ad-Hoc,      Established,     Measured,                                                    Managed,
                                                                                                                         Low Risk
                             High Risk  Risk Acknowledged  Managed Risk
                                                                                                                          
Business Processes                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                          
Systems and Technology                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                          
Performance Measurement                                                                                                   

Organization and Workforce                                                                                                                   47

Culture

                    Collaboration
Traffic Signal Systems Capability Maturity Self-Evaluation Tool: https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/tsmoframeworktool/tool/tssc/

                                    Infographic sample from the Indiana Department of Transportation case study
                                                                              Source: FHWA
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Clark County, WA    Utah Department of         Indiana Department of
                    Transportation (UDOT)      Transportation (INDOT)
Portland Bureau of
Transportation, OR

                                                                                                  Pennsylvania
                                                                                                  Department of
                                                                                                  Transportation
                                                                                                  (PennDOT)

    Maricopa County, AZ                                                                           Georgia Department of
                                                                                                  Transportation (GDOT)
                           Map of the United States with participating agency states highlighted
                                                                Source: FHWA                          Seminole
                                                                                                      County, FL

48
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

CASE STUDY 1: Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) ­ FHWA-HOP-18-048
https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop18048/index.htm

ATSPMs enable the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT)                          Photo Credit: UDOT
to proactively manage traffic signal timing and quickly identify
maintenance issues that affect traffic flow. UDOT's ATSPM         "Signal performance measures have
program benefited from its partnership with Purdue University,    enabled the State of Utah to do more
FHWA, and the Transportation Pooled Fund Program. Today,          with less, focus our resources on the
UDOT's ATSPM contains a suite of data visualization reports       areas of most need, and to more
that can be used to evaluate the quality of traffic progression   effectively prioritize resources and
along corridors and identify unused green time for allocation to  workload."
other intersection movements. System reports of vehicle delay,
volumes, and speeds can be used to evaluate the effectiveness     Mark Taylor
of signal timing adjustments. ATSPM visualizations can also be    Traffic Signal Operations Engineer, UDOT
used to inform UDOT staff of vehicle and pedestrian detector
malfunctions, saving staff time during maintenance operations.
ATSPM tools speed up decision-making and help UDOT staff
prioritize operation and maintenance efforts.

Since implementing its ATSPM program, UDOT has noted a significant drop in public complaints
and requests for traffic signal retiming. The ATSPM system quickly identifies problems such as failed
detectors and sends a simple email notification. These alerts allow UDOT to respond to issues before
they become public nuisances and prolonged threats to mobility.

UDOT is collecting ATSPM at 99 percent of its 1,271 traffic signals. Partner agencies have connected 90
percent of their 914 signals and report data through the same centralized operation. UDOT's end goal is
to have all signals statewide connected and contributing data to their existing ATSPM system.

To learn more, visit http://udottraffic.utah.gov/atspm/

                                                                                                            49
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

CASE STUDY 2: Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) ­ FHWA-HOP-18-050
https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop18050/index.htm

    The Georgia Department of Transportation's (GDOT) ATSPM

    deployment uses the open-source ATSPM management software

    developed by the Utah Department of Transportation and features

    a public-facing website to make data and analysis readily available.

    Data collected by the ATSPM system allows GDOT to better manage

    the operations and maintenance of signals. GDOT's traffic engineers

    can use data visualizations from the ATSPM system to answer                                Photo Credit: GDOT
    questions like:
                                                                                 "Having eyes on the entirety of
    · "Are green times appropriate?"                                             our large system has been pretty
    · "Did a retiming project completed by a consultant team produce a           much impossible. But with the
                                                                                 introduction of ATSPM, we have a
      benefit to the system?"                                                    snapshot of the health of our entire
                                                                                 system and the ability to quickly
                                             GDOT also uses ATSPM data when      diagnose and focus resources
                                             developing alternate routing plans  across the whole system."

                                      for events and emergencies. For            Alan Davis
                                      example, ATSPM tools helped to             Assistant State Traffic Engineer, GDOT

                                      develop alternate routes and adjust

                                      signal timing to address the 2017 I-85 bridge collapse in Atlanta.

    Photo Credit: GDOT                GDOT shares responsibility with local agencies for the operation of
                                      6,500 of the State's 9,500 signals. GDOT has 6,775 signal connected on
    "With ATSPM, we can now           the ATSPM system that are logging high-resolution data. This number
    aggregate information to a level  includes both GDOT signals and locally owned/operated signals.
    where we understand how the       With over 59 percent of signals that GDOT owns or shares operational
    system is actually behaving."     responsibilities reporting high-quality data, GDOT uses ATSPM as its
                                      primary tool to improve operations and manage maintenance.
    Sam Harris
    Regional Traffic Operations
    Program Supervisor, GDOT

To learn more, visit https://traffic.dot.ga.gov/ATSPM/

50
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

CASE STUDY 3: Maricopa County, AZ ­ FHWA-HOP-18-052
https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop18052/index.htm

The AZTech Regional Partnership implemented ATSPM in                       Photo Credit: Maricopa Co. DOT
a regional context using Maricopa County's central ATSPM
server. The ATSPM server is part of AZTech's Regional Archived     "All the agencies involved are
Data System--a system that collects, processes, and archives       impressed that when a citizen
intelligent transportation systems data from regional and local    complaint arrives, how quickly and
subsystems and 14 traffic management centers. Maricopa             easily this tool can help identify the
County's deployment approach leverages the existing Maricopa       severity of a traffic signal issue, and
Association of Governments Regional Communication Network          narrow into its root cause."
communication infrastructure, minimizing implementation costs      - April Wire , PE, PTOE
and maximizing the availability of technology for agencies in the
region. In 2016, Maricopa County launched its regional ATSPM          ITS Project Manager
pilot program with 70 signalized intersections (10 signals per        Maricopa County Department of
jurisdiction). Today, the system integrates 273 signals equipped      Transportation
with high-resolution controllers.
                                                                           Photo Credit: Maricopa Co. DOT
AZTech takes responsibility for the consolidation, analysis,
and storage of data for its members' ATSPM systems. Maricopa       "ATSPM is a helpful tool for getting
County has led AZTech in the deployment of ATSPM systems,          funding support. Showing good data
which are spread across eight jurisdictions. Maricopa County and   representations of performance, how
AZTech used the open-source Utah Department of Transportation      specific investments can improve
ATSPM monitoring software to manage information collected by       performance, is very convincing to
the ATSPM system. The ATSPM server, which allows ATSPM data        nontechnical audiences."
signals to communicate to the same server, is linked to AZTech's   - Faisal Saleem
pooling data from various agencies in the region into one
interface. The one-of-a-kind ATSPM system is the outcome of trust     ITS Branch Manager, Maricopa County
and working relationships that have formed and solidified over 22     Department of Transportation
years of AZTech Regional Partnership collaboration. Furthermore,
the FHWA ATSPM Peer Exchange provided meaningful learning
opportunities for AZTech Regional Partnership partners to gain
knowledge about the system.

To learn more, visit http://www.aztech.org/

                                                                                                            51
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

CASE STUDY 4: Clark County, Washington ­ FHWA-HOP-18-049
https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop18049/index.htm

    Clark County, Washington, has implemented ATSPM as part
    of its overarching Signal Timing, Evaluation, Verification, and
    Enhancement program. Clark County's ATSPM system objectives
    are:

    · Time signals for safe and efficient travel.

    · Manage existing roadways.

    · Defer expensive capital projects.                                                Photo credit: Clark County
    · Gather data to help make decisions.
    · Provide information to the public.                                    "So why are we doing ATSPMs? You
                                                                            can't improve if you don't measure."

    Clark County's system is the outcome of a collaborative effort with     - Rob Klug, PE
    Trafficware to develop an ATSPM module that stores and supports            Traffic Signals Manager
    the evaluation of high-resolution data, Bluetooth® data, alarms and

    event logs, and other signal timing events to develop performance measures consistent with the traffic

    signal program's objectives. To reduce staff time spent analyzing data and improve the depth and

    breadth of traffic signal performance, Clark County is developing an ATSPM dashboard. The dashboard

    will help traffic engineers analyze data to determine how the transportation system is operating

    compared with recent traffic trends and performance metrics associated with individual corridors.

    The system will automatically flag current operations that are outside of accepted performance

    parameters. These checks are also monitored to determine if an occurrence is a one-time instance or

    an ongoing situation.

    Clark County has upgraded 100 percent of its 106 traffic signals to be ATSPM-capable. With upgraded
    controllers, the timing of these signals can be adjusted in real time based on data automatically
    collected. Additional Bluetooth data collection devices continue to be installed along major corridors
    to provide additional data to improve operation of the system. Clark County's ATSPM implementation
    benefited from proactive partnership and collaboration with the Southwest Washington Regional
    Transportation Council, the City of Vancouver, and the Washington State Department of Transportation.
    Volume and speed data collected at ATSPM-capable signals in Clark County are shared with the public
    through an online database, PORTAL, run by the Portland State University. New data analysis and
    reporting frameworks for ATSPM data will be developed in phase 2 of the project.

To learn more, visit https://www.clark.wa.gov/public-works/traffic-signals

52
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

CASE STUDY 5: Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) ­
FHWA-HOP-18-05 https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop18054/index.htm

   The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation's (PennDOT) ATSPM program is statewide in scale.
   PennDOT has implemented ATSPMs where high-resolution controllers and field communications are
   available.
   PennDOT's overall ATSPM goals include:

      · Reducing delay, emissions, and fuel consumption.
      · Reducing crashes and fatalities.
      · Focusing impacts on the economy and job creation.
      · Standardizing traffic signal equipment.
      · Establishing regional and multi-jurisdictional collaboration.
   PennDOT uses open-source software developed by the Utah Department of Transportation for data
   storage and reporting. Future ATSPM plans include enhancement of PennDOT's unified statewide
   command and control software platform. The platform is needed because PennDOT connects with
   approximately 1,200 different signal owners and six different system software types, many of which are
   not compatible with newer systems. PennDOT's unified command and control integrates wide-ranging
   ATSPM inputs all in one platform.
   PennDOT is supplementing ATSPM to meet its delay, safety, emissions, economic, system
   standardization, and collaboration goals with corridor-level probe data and performance management.
   Initial deployment of the probe data effort monitors 138 super-critical corridors and 2,184 traffic
   signals, and utilizes 776 arterial miles of INRIX data. Following initial deployment, PennDOT plans to
   expand implementation statewide and improve dashboard features. Probe data allows PennDOT to
   utilize the following tools:
      · Travel Time Comparison Tool: Compares travel time distributions on a single corridor over

         different time periods.
      · Arterial Ranking Tool: Ranks multiple corridors based on normalized median and interquartile

         travel times over the same time period.
      · Congestion Ticker: Tracks speeds of corridors over time to identify time periods and locations of

         congestion.

To learn more, visit www.dot.state.pa.us/signals and https://signalmetrics.trafficwise.org/index.php

                                                                                                                                                                                   53
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

CASE STUDY 6: Seminole County, FL ­ FHWA-HOP-18-056
https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop18056/index.htm

    Seminole County, Florida, uses ATSPM to support a wide range of                 Photo Credit: FDOT
    performance metrics. Lane-by-lane detection, coupled with ATSPM
    systems, has reduced the need to perform periodic traffic counts       "With increasing traffic and
    and allowed for data-driven evaluations of signal performance.         limited resources, ATSPM is
    Using ATSPM to analyze before and after metrics for arrivals on       a great tool to help us easily
    red, arrivals on green, number of max outs, and number of gap         identify signal timing trouble
    outs allows Seminole County to immediately gauge performance
    improvements after a signal retiming effort. Likewise, the system         spots and evaluate the
    enables Seminole County to evaluate the effectiveness of adaptive     operational efficiency of our
    systems. System-generated Purdue Coordination Diagrams,
    together with comparisons of arrivals on green and red data,                     corridors."
    provide insights as to the effectiveness of an adaptive system.
                                                                        Charles R. Wetzel, P.E., PTOE
    Seminole County's 387 signals are all recording high-resolution     County Traffic Engineer
    data. The ATSPM program began as a partnership with the Florida     Seminole County Public Works /
    Department of Transportation (FDOT) and the Utah Department of      Traffic Engineering
    Transportation (UDOT). Seminole County is also actively exploring
    ways to leverage ATSPM data to optimize operations at the corridor
    scale.

    Seminole County has devoted considerable resources to implementing ATSPMs on all its signals.
    Signal controllers were all upgraded to enable high-resolution data collection and the County laid a
    network of fiber optic cables to provide fast, reliable system communication. Data storage for ATSPMs
    has proven to be an important consideration for Seminole County. The County collects almost nine
    gigabytes of data daily, requiring considerable storage and communication capacity over time.

    Seminole County is using Trafficware 980 ATC controllers to enable ATSPMs on their signals. Seminole
    County originally used UDOT's ATSPM software to collect and display ATSPM data to the public but has
    since migrated their ATSPM website to FDOT's management so that other jurisdictions may also use
    the site as a common platform and one-stop website for Florida ATSPM data. The UDOT-developed
    software allows FDOT to bring ATSPM data from multiple jurisdictions across the state into one
    interface.

54
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Seminole County is just one of the local maintaining agencies
that has partnered with FDOT on ATSPM deployment. Other
implementations include:

District 3 (City of Tallahassee): Initially installed at 22 signals on               Photo Credit: FDOT
US 90. FDOT configured intersections and detector geometry along
the corridor, allowing the relevant metric charts to be rendered.       "Florida's statewide arterial
The City of Tallahassee has expanded ATSPM implementation to 40         management program considers
more traffic signals.                                                   various tools to help improve
                                                                        traffic signal operations.
District 7 (D7): FDOT installed ATSPM along Fowler Avenue between       ATSPM is an important tool for
I-275 and I-75.                                                         accomplishing this goal."

      · Installed ATSPM to two Dell PowerEdge servers utilizing         Raj Ponnaluri, PhD, PE, PTOE, PMP
         virtualization. One server hosted the database and the other   Connected Vehicle and Arterial
         for website and applications.                                  Management Engineer
                                                                        FDOT
      · Coordinated with the City of Tampa and Hillsborough County
         to verify equipment and communications capability.

· Configured ten City of Tampa and five Hillsborough County
   intersections along the corridor. The Tampa intersections were active at the start of
   installation and are a mix of Econolite and Cobalt controllers. The Hillsborough County
   controllers, to the east along Fowler, were Naztec 980 ATC.

· D7 has also configured an additional 22 signals in the system to be brought online
   soon.

To learn more, visit
https://www.seminolecountyfl.gov/departments-services/public-works/traffic-engineering/ and
https://atspm.cflsmartroads.com/ATSPM

                                                                                                           55
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

CASE STUDY 7: Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) - FHWA-HOP-18-051

    The Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) pioneered the

    development of ATSPM and the application of ATSPM in real-world

    decision-making. INDOT piloted ATSPMs in 2003 and, by 2008, had

    implemented systemwide performance metrics supported by

    high-resolution data. INDOT led the Transportation Pooled Fund

    Program's Traffic Signal Systems and Operations and Management                    Photo Credit: INDOT
    TPF-5(258) from 2013 to 2017. The study developed best practices for
    implementation of ATSPM systems and usage of the data collected.      "Our partnerships with the state
    INDOT's ATSPM system is successfully used to evaluate signal          and local agencies that were
    retiming efforts, manage unplanned detour routes and diversions,      part of FHWA Transportation
    and monitor programmatic performance measures.                        Pooled Fund Study TPF-5(258)
                                                                          were instrumental in developing
    INDOT and Purdue University led research that serves as the           consensus definitions that the
    basis for present day ATSPM programs across the country. In           industry could focus on to provide
    Performance Measures for Traffic Signal Systems: An Outcome-          the required data collection
    Oriented Approach, the INDOT and Purdue University research team      capabilities."
    established a methodology for performance evaluation of traffic
                                                                          Jim Sturdevant, PE
                                                                          Director of Traffic Management
                                                                          INDOT

    signal systems using high-resolution controller event data. INDOT

    and Purdue University share insights regarding collection and management of signal event data and

    the infrastructure needed to support ATSPM systems. Performance measures encompass system

    maintenance, asset management, multimodal signal operations, and assessing the impact of signal

    retiming activities. INDOT and Purdue University's Integrating Traffic Signal Performance Measures into

    Agency Business Processes outlines requirements for implementing data collection and processing

    into ATSPM programs. This publication uses example performance measures for communication and

    detector system health, capacity allocation, safety, pedestrian performance, preemption, advanced

    control analysis, and quality of progression.

To learn more, visit https://www.in.gov/indot/3252.htm

56
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES

CASE STUDY 8: Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) ­ FHWA-HOP-18-055
https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop18055/index.htm

The Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) is responsible for

operation and maintenance of 1,200 traffic signals. To explore

the benefit, value, and cost associated with implementation

of an ATSPM system, PBOT initiated a pilot project at five

intersections spread across the Portland. In the future, PBOT

will expand the ATSPM system with detection at 30 additional

signals along three identified corridors. Moving forward, PBOT       Photo Credit: PBOT

has developed a prioritized list of intersections for the roll-out   "We are getting data that enables us to
of controller upgrades and ATSPM installation in addition to the     look at the performance metrics... [but]
identified corridors. PBOT has also set the goal of developing a     detection is very critical. With detection
dashboard tool to combine ATSPM data with other data sources         you can get the data that you want. We
to improve operations and assist decision-making. While              are looking to be able to benefit from
the ATSPM system in Portland is still in its infancy, there are      pedestrian delay and arrivals on green.
ambitious plans for growth.
                                                                     We can look at performance measures
The open-source ATSPM software developed by the Utah                 from a central system and actually tell
Department of Transportation was deployed by the Oregon              what is happening at those locations--
                                                                     1,200 intersections are a lot for eight guys,
                                                                     so we don't have a lot of time to go take a
                                                                     look at things."

Department of Transportation (Orgeon DOT) to collect data            Willie Rotich, PE, ITS Engineer
from all of the state's ATSPM-equipped signals. However,             PBOT

the Oregon DOT ATSPM site is behind a firewall and is not

available to the public. Oregon's ATSPM systems use advanced detection including cameras and

Bluetooth® readers. As PBOT incrementally upgrades signal controllers throughout Portland, detection

hardware will need to be installed to enable ATSPM collection. PBOT has a strong multimodal focus

and is very interested in using ATSPM data to measure pedestrian and bicyclist delay in addition to

vehicle performance measures. A joint study between the Iowa State University, the Northern Arizona

University, and the Portland State University, with cooperation from PBOT, explored the potential to

deploy machine learning to refine the raw output data from ATSPM systems. The study used raw data

from two of Portland's five ATSPM-equipped signals. Machine learning was used to filter out bad data,

develop graphic representations of data, and intelligently learn patterns in demand over time. New

performance metrics enabled by machine learning capabilities were dubbed Intelligent Traffic Signal

Performance Measures (ITSPM). An example of ITSPMs enabled by machine learning is the Aggregate

Platoon Coordination Diagram, which shows vehicle distributions in relation to signal timing using data

collected over a day or week.

To learn more, visit https://www.portlandoregon.gov/transportation/

                                                                                                                    57
