Next-Generation Traffic Incident Management:
(NextGen TIM Tech) for Saving Lives

Emergency Vehicle Preemption (EVP)

                                                                       Photo Credit: Enforcement Engineering, Inc.

Emergency vehicle operation is a dangerous part of the job for public safety agencies, such as police, fire, and emergency medical services.
Signalized intersections are particularly dangerous, and they require responders to slow or stop and proceed cautiously when facing a red
signal. Emergency vehicle preemption (EVP) changes the traffic signal indication to green for an approaching emergency response vehicle,
while promptly displaying a red signal to drivers who may cross the emergency vehicle's path. This interruption of the normal traffic signal
operation enhances safety and reduces response time for an approaching emergency response vehicle.

The concept of EVP has existed for several decades and is generally implemented in one of two ways: vehicle based and system based.
Vehicle-based systems rely on transmitter equipment mounted in the responder vehicle that communicates with receiver equipment at each
signalized intersection. Upon receiving a visual, audible, or wireless signal that an emergency vehicle in response mode is approaching, the
individual signal controller at the intersection preempts the timing plan and gives preference to the appropriate intersection approach
(see figure 1).

Although the vehicle-based approach is still widely used, system-based approaches are quickly becoming a focus of attention. By taking
advantage of newer, modern technologies, system-based traffic
signal preemption is more reliable, more cost effective, and
less cumbersome to manage. Automated vehicle location (AVL)
technology, computer-aided dispatch (CAD), and centralized traffic
signal system control using advanced traffic management systems
(ATMS) allow agencies to implement signal preemption without
dedicated hardware installed in the field (see figure 2).

Through CAD integration, the ATMS may know when dispatchers

assign response vehicles to high-priority emergency calls and provide

preferred response routes. The AVL pinpoints the real-time location    Figure 1. Illustration. Maricopa Association of Governments
                           of responding vehicles, and preemption       vehicle-based emergency vehicle preemption solutions.
                                       requests are transmitted to       (Photo Credit: Maricopa Association of Governments.)
                                              traffic signals using a

central traffic control system with communication to the traffic signal.

System-based EVP allows the response vehicle to select any route to the emergency
   scene. Rather than define the route and trigger EVP at equipped signalized
      intersections along the way, the system-based approach may easily be scaled
         for an entire network. The Global Positioning System-based technology uses
            geofences around the signalized intersection to detect the approaching
              emergency vehicle and send a request to change or keep the signal
                phase green. The real-time speed and distance of the responding
                 vehicle are factored into triggering the signal and the duration of
                   the preemption.

                                                                       Although both vehicle and system approaches are proven, the
                                                                       latter has advantages when it comes to cost, reliability, scalability,
                                                                        and ease of management. Managing EVP across jurisdictions is
                                                                        possible with both systems with planning and coordination.

                                                                       Figure 2. Photo. Image of first responder vehicle. (Photo

                                                                       Credits: Enforcement Engineering, Inc. and Getty Images.)               1
IMPLEMENTATION AND BENEFITS

Coordinated planning, policies, and involvement from agencies responsible for traffic signal  Joseph Tebo
and public safety are key to a successful EVP program. Beyond the equipment or systems        FHWA Office of Operations
required to establish the EVP, agency policy and user training are necessary. Performance     202­981­3117
management and reporting are also relevant parts of implementation to monitor activations,    joseph.tebo@dot.gov
quantify benefits, and justify the program.                                                   Paul Jodoin
                                                                                              FHWA Office of Operations
St. Paul, MN, experienced a 71 percent reduction in emergency vehicle crashes                 202­366­5465
after deploying EVP.1                                                                         paul.jodoin@dot.gov
                                                                                              James Austrich
The Virginia Tech Transportation Institute determined that the average duration of a          FHWA Office of Operations
preemption was 25 seconds and that effects on side streets were usually cleared within        202­366­0731
one cycle.2                                                                                   james.austrich@dot.gov
                                                                                              For more information, visit the
Response times decreased by 14 to 23 percent, or a total of 70 seconds, on average, in a      FHWA EDC7 Next-Generation TIM
Denver, CO, EVP evaluation at six intersections.3                                             Web Page.
                                                                                              Publication No.
The Plano, TX, Fire Department                                                                FHWA-HOP-24-019
experienced 7 crashes at signalized
intersections from 1981 to 1983, and                                                          Except for the statutes and regulations cited, the
just 4 intersection crashes in the more                                                       contents of this document do not have the force and
than 20 years following implementation                                                        effect of law and are not meant to bind the States
of EVP.4                                                                                      or the public in any way. This document is intended
                                                                                              only to provide information regarding existing
Average delay per intersection before                                                         requirements under the law or agency policies.
EVP was 7 seconds, and 1 second
after implementation.5                                                                                                              2

The system-based arrangement installed   Figure 3. Illustration. System-based arrangement
in San Jose, CA, was approximately       of emergency vehicle preemption. (Photo Credits:
$8 million less than the hardware-based  Enforcement Engineering, Inc. and Getty Images.)
alternative for fewer intersections
(see figure 3).6

CONCLUSION

Although the concept of EVP is not new, advances in traffic signal and vehicle location
technologies have paved the way for innovation. Cost-effective implementation coupled
with fewer operational challenges and reduced maintenance costs make EVP worthy of a
new look.

RESOURCES

1 Fire Chief, Department of Fire and Safety Services, St. Paul, MN. 1977.
 Emergency Vehicle Accident Study.

2 McHale, G.M. and J. Collura. 2003. Improving Emergency Vehicle Traffic Signal Priority
 System Assessment Methodologies. Paper presented at the 82nd Annual Meeting of the
 Transportation Research Board, Washington, DC.

3 City of Denver Department of Safety. 1978. Time Study on the Effectiveness of the
 Opticom Traffic Control System. Report prepared for the City of Denver by the Denver
 Department of Safety, FHWA Report No. D-ORTS/78.5.

4 FHWA. 2006. Traffic Signal Preemption for Emergency Vehicles: A Cross-Cutting Study.
 FHWA-JPO-05-010.

5 Nguyen, H. 2023. Central EVP. Presented at the 2023 Intelligent Transportation System
 (ITS) Northern California Luncheon.

6 Saville, R., and H. Nguyen. 2018. "Expanding the Capabilities of Your Traffic Signal
 Management System by Centralizing Emergency Vehicle Preemption Management."
 Presented at the 2018 ITSA Annual Meeting.
