SIGNAL SYSTEM TIMING
 PHILOSOPHY MANUAL

                VERSION 2.0
                 FEBRUARY 1, 2017
A. DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Author:                               NCDOT COST Section
File name:                            2017-02-01 NCDOT Signal Timing Philosophy Manual.pdf
Document Name:                        Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual
Version Number:                       2.0
Issue Date:                           February 1, 2017
Users:
Document process owner:               NCDOT COST Section
File Location:

B. DISTRIBUTION MATRIX

Copy No.          Recipient                  Copy             E-mail Address
MASTER
ORIGINAL

C. TABLE OF APPROVAL / ACCEPTANCE

Responsibility          Name                 Role                 Signature

Author(s):              Contributors         Document Originator

Reviewer:               NCDOT COST Section,  Quality Control
                        Kimley-Horn

D. REVISION GRID

Revision    Date              Updated by     Purpose of Revision
Number
                                             Draft Annotated Outline of document
1.0         12/25/2015                       Incorporate technical content

2.0         2/1/2017
Acknowledgments

The following list acknowledges internal contributors and consultants who provided the technical content of this manual.

          Project Manager
          Jennifer Portanova, PE, NCDOT
          In coordination with Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.

          Individual Contributors
          Tom Agnew, NCDOT
          Chang Baek, NCDOT
          Mohamed Deen, NCDOT
          Michael Johnson, NCDOT
          Joe Lohr, NCDOT
          NCDOT, Traffic Engineering Staff, Divisions 1 ­ 14
          Spencer Ip, AECOM
          Sreekanth Nandagiri, PE, AECOM
          Andrew Klinksiek, PE, HNTB
          Natasha Simmons, PE, HNTB
          Kevin Baumann, PE, Kimley-Horn
          Stacie Phillips, PE, Kimley-Horn
          Belayneh Mekuria, PE, Mekuria Engineering
          Steve Haynie, PE, RS&H
          Dean Harris, PE, Stantec
          Regina Muncey, PE, Stantec

RESOURCES AND LINKS

      Improving Traffic Signal Management and Operations: A Basic Service Model
          http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop09055/fhwa_hop_09_055.pdf

      2012 National Traffic Signal Report Card http://www.ite.org/reportcard/TechnicalReport.pdf
      Traffic Signal Manual http://www.signaltiming.com/The_Signal_Timing_Manual_08082008.pdf
      NCHRP 409: Traffic Signal Retiming Practices in the US

          http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/nchrp/nchrp_syn_409.pdf
      NCDOT ITS and Signals Design Manual

          https://connect.ncdot.gov/resources/safety/its%20and%20signals%20resources/its%20and%20signals%20unit%20
          design%20manual.pdf
      MUTCD http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/
      NCHRP 3-90 "Operation of Traffic Signal Systems in Oversaturated Conditions"
          https://www.nap.edu/catalog/22290/operation-of-traffic-signal-systems-in-oversaturated-conditions-volume-1-
          practitioner-guidance
      NCHRP Report 812 "Signal Timing Manual Second Edition"
          http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/nchrp/nchrp_rpt_812.pdf (144.171.11.50)
      FHWA-SA-13-027 (July 2013) Signalized Intersections: Informational Guide
          http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/intersection/conventional/signalized/fhwasa13027/

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Aknowledgments and References
Introduction

The North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
manages a wide range of transportation resources, including
pedestrian and bike facilities; arterial, freeway, and interstate
routes; passenger rail; and ferry operations. Signalized
arterial routes play a significant role in the performance of
this comprehensive transportation network. These
connections integrate the long distance modes on rail and
freeways with more precise destinations. Some of these
arterial networks are managed through centralized signal
systems that span signalized intersections on multiple
corridors, but an even greater number is managed by
interconnected coordinated signal systems located on a
single corridor.

Studies have shown that improving traffic signal coordination

plans is one of the most cost effective uses of transportation

funds, with a consistent benefit-cost ratio of 40:1. Efficiently

coordinating a set of traffic signals within a system with well-

designed coordination plans can reduce travel time delays,

crashes, fuel consumption, and emissions. North Carolina is

fortunate to have a talented pool of expertise both within the

Department and in the private sector that can continually           FIGURE 1. SIGNAL SYSTEM TIMING PROCESS
optimize these corridors with effective coordination plans. Signal

system timing work in North Carolina has given each of these

professionals unique experiences and skill sets geared towards two high-level goals:

 Balancing and minimizing congestion
 Promoting smooth flow along a corridor

NCDOT is developing this document as a single repository of signal system timing knowledge integrated with the vision and
program objectives of the Department. It is envisioned that this will promote information sharing and best practices to
support consistent delivery of signal timing projects within the state. This documentation of procedures and guidelines is
intended to help professionals, in both the public and private sectors, to accomplish the following objectives:

      Design appropriately to the prevailing conditions
      Provide versatile solutions that can accommodate a range of conditions
      Prioritize competing objectives for the corridor

The development of this manual is intended to be a collaborative effort facilitated by NCDOT's Central Office System Timing
(COST) Section within Transportation Mobility and Safety. The goal is to continue to involve a wide range of experts from
across the state and from across both the public and private sector. There are multiple ways to approach signal system
timing, and this document will capture the most appropriate methods that address the identified operational objectives for
North Carolina. The Department sees this collaborative approach as a successful means to achieving the vision for
coordinated signal systems: To minimize stops and delays, within the context of safe operation.

The elements in this manual serve a vast array of purposes, from guiding scope development to providing technical
guidance. Each of the elements are presented as standalone guidance documents or tools and are grouped into the four
categories present in Figure 1.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                                          Introduction
Catalog

The Philosophy Manual is a collection of guidelines and tools that comprise the catalog outlined below. This catalog of
documents is a living library of tools that will be continually revised by the signal timing community as strategies change
and new technologies are introduced. They are categorized to streamline user access.

Program Management

 Corridor Selection Process
 Performance Goals
 Data Needs and Applications

Ti m i n g

 Signal Timing Project Process
 Context of a Corridor
 Establishing Operational Objectives
 Field Visit Protocol
 Data Collection
 Final Report Recommendations
 "High Priority Ped" Tool for Coordinated Phases (Oasis Software)
 Alternative Timing Plans

As s e s s m e n t

 Standard Practice for Performing Travel Time Runs
 Cost Benefit Analysis

Monitoring

 Roles and Responsibilities
 Impacts on a Corridor

Strategic Planning / Long Term Topics

In addition to the topics identified in the catalog, other topics have been identified for long range strategic planning efforts

and will be integrated into future sections of this manual.

      Continuous Data Options
                o High Resolution Controller Data (HRCD)
                o Bluetooth
                o 3rd Party Probe Data
                o WI-FI
                o Dedicated Short Range Communications (DSRC)
                o System Detectors for Annual Performance Analysis

      Historical Documentation
      Integrated Corridor Management (ICM)
      Diverging Diamond Interchange (DDI)
      Emissions Data

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                       Catalog
Catalog

UNDER DEVELOPMENT / FUTURE DOCUMENTATION

      Connected and Automated Vehicles (CAV)
      PEF Evaluation Process
      Left Turn Phase Reservice

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

      Scope of Services ­ Retiming of Existing Closed Loop Signals FY 2017

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                                Catalog
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
Corridor Selection Process

GOAL

The COST (Central Office Signal Timing) group seeks to select corridors for signal system timing projects that maximize
NCDOT's return on investment (ROI). Obtaining this goal will be an evolving process and the COST group will work through
several iterations as it moves towards a more refined ROI approach to selecting corridors.

NCDOT is investigating performance metrics and data sources that enable more accurate assessments of a corridor's
performance. The chosen performance metrics are closely tied to the value and accuracy of the available data. This
identification and evaluation approach will be iterative as NCDOT works through a few alternative approaches.

CURRENT PROCESS

Currently, the COST group issues timing projects on a three-year cycle. A system can be timed with greater frequency in
response to citizen complaints, new developments on the corridor, or known changes in traffic patterns that have degraded
the performance of the corridor.

Challenges

One observation of the current process is that some of the identified corridors selected for a timing project have limited
potential to benefit from a new timing plan. The comprehensive scope of a signal system timing project includes evaluation,
design, and implementation. Often the evaluation phase determines that the performance issues with the corridor are not
related to the existing timing plan and that capacity or geometric improvements would provide a bigger impact. In addition,
the evaluation phase is based on travel time runs for the collection of "before" data. Travel time runs only provide data for
a single day of traffic conditions, creating a small sample size of traffic data. The challenges can be easily summarized in two
needs:

          Evaluation Approach: NCDOT is working through several pilot projects and parallel assessment efforts to evaluate
          additional corridor performance metrics. Each of these efforts are focused on defining an approach that supports
          the ability to provide continuous corridor performance statistics and the identification of corridors that will yield
          the highest ROI with respect to newly implemented signal timing.

          Data Sources: NCDOT is currently investigating additional data sources that can provide larger data sets to support
          the assessment and continuous monitoring of a corridor's performance. These data sources are described in more
          detail within the Continuous Data Options document.

CORRIDOR CATEGORIZATION

In order to optimize the use of resources, the COST Section works closely with Division staff to categorize corridors that
include coordinated signal systems. NCDOT has initiated a process that will place corridors into one of three categories that
include typical corridors, critical corridors, and non-critical corridors. Analysis for each corridor will be managed as defined
below:

          Typical Corridors: Typical corridors experience "normal" growth in traffic patterns and assessments at three year
          intervals are frequent enough to respond to changes in traffic volumes and traffic patterns. This category will
          include approximately 80% of the coordinated systems currently in place in North Carolina.

          Critical Corridors: These corridors will be assessed more frequently at an interval of approximately every 18
          months. The existing traffic conditions or projected conditions due to planned development in the vicinity of the
          corridor create the need for these evaluations to occur more frequently than the typical 3-year time frame. If the

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Corridor Selection Process
Program Management                                                    Page 1
Corridor Selection Process

          need for a revised coordination plan is determined before the 3-year cycle has lapsed, funding could be alternated
          between the COST Section and Division funding sources.

          Non-critical Corridors: These corridors are projected to experience very slow growth in traffic volumes and
          minimal changes in traffic patterns. They require less frequent assessments and can be evaluated at intervals of
          possibly 5 to 6 years instead of the typical 3-year interval.

The initial designation of corridors will be established based on available data and the knowledge of the Division and COST
section of the corridor's history. A baseline will be established and evaluated as additional data is available. Designations for
a corridor can be modified and the process for designating and comparing against baseline values will be refined as the
process moves forward.

Existing systems can require revised coordination plans in response to a range of needs. These include a change in traffic
patterns, increases in volumes, and complaints from the public. If a corridor is selected as needing analysis and retiming,
these needs and the anticipated outcomes should be documented. In response to the quantity of systems that require
analysis, the COST section will supplement staffing resources using engineering consultants.

Each year the corridors selected for retiming will be prioritized by the Division based on their needs. Projects will be
completed based on available funding from a variety of funding sources, including Safety, Maintenance and/or
Construction. Projects may be completed in the following fiscal year if funding is limited.

NEXT STEPS

Each of the current investigative efforts are coordinated to support corridor selection based on the ROI. NCDOT is
investigating potential alternatives for accessing before and after performance data. The Department also is looking at what
metrics should be evaluated with respect to the operational objectives identified for a corridor. All of these efforts are
anticipated to evolve into a process that allows the NCDOT to select projects that yield the highest return on investment
with respect to the implementation of new signal timing plans.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Corridor Selection Process
Program Management                                                    Page 2
Performance Goals

CURRENT APPROACH

The COST Section currently is evaluated on a measured improvement of before and after conditions as calculated through
Tru-Traffic travel time runs. The metrics are presented in Table 1. These values are defined based on a national report for
statistics to measure the benefit of signal system timing work: NCHRP 409: Traffic Signal Retiming Practices in the US
(http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/nchrp/nchrp_syn_409.pdf).

TABLE 1. PERFORMANCE GOALS

New Corridors                                 40% Reduction in Travel Times
Retimed Corridors                             20% Reduction in Travel Times

This approach to measuring the outcome presents a few challenges. NCDOT's current process for selecting signal system
timing projects is not based on an assessment of the corridor's performance, or the "before" conditions (see "Corridor
Selection Process" document in this manual). Therefore, once a project has been identified and the corridor assessed, it is
feasible to determine that minimal or no improvements can be realized through signal system retiming. To offset this, the
COST Section is evaluated on an average of all the corridors that are retimed within a year.

Additional challenges associated with using travel time reduction as a performance goal include:

      Not effective measures for all operational objectives, like special events, incident management, or ramp queuing
          on interstate.

      Difficult to perform in saturated conditions, which account for >20% of the projects
      Does not address non-arterial situations
      Small sample size with the number of runs
      Difficult to get runs when there are short timing plans
      Easy to manipulate to achieve higher travel time savings
      No standard for how runs are done (i.e. beginning of queue, back of queue, etc.)
      Does not consider volume
      Requires a lot of manpower time to conduct

This current system prohibits the same measure of effectiveness to be applied to a single corridor. For this reason, PEFs are
not held accountable to the same threshold of percent improvement.

FUTURE UPDATES

In alignment with the corridor selection process, NCDOT is looking to identify corridors that will yield the highest return on
investment in response to the implementation of new signal system timing plans. In addition, the identification of
operational objectives associated with each corridor selected will be critical to marrying the measure of effectiveness with
the defined goals of the signal system timing project.

Future developments in continuous data access, such as high resolution data or probe data, and centralized software for
constant monitoring also may expand the realm of achievable performance goals. Additionally, NCDOT is looking to
establish performance goals that relate more directly to emissions and fuel consumption.

The results of redefined performance goals will feed into how private engineering firms (PEFs) are evaluated.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                                 Performance Goals
Program Management
Data Needs and Applications

                                              This document defines the signal system timing data needs and the
                                              corresponding applications. The data is grouped into three categories that align
                                              with the signal system timing process.

                                              TIMING ­ Designing of signal system timing plans. Data needs: turning
                                              movement counts, design speed, geometry, and other field collected data
                                              (saturation flow rate, lane utilization, distances between the intersections, loss
                                              time, mid-block access, surrounding land-use patterns).

                                              ASSESSMENT ­ Evaluation of the quality of the timing effort by comparing
                                              before and after data of the corridor. Data needs: travel times, split monitor,
                                              volume and occupancy, delay on side streets, cycle length (observation)

                                                     MONITORING ­ Evaluation of the system, over time, to determine at what point
                                                     "tweaking" of the system is no longer sufficient and a dedicated timing effort is
needed. There currently is no criterion in place defining the threshold point for timing. Data needs: travel times, split
monitor (determine efficiency of the timing plans splits), vehicle speeds (to compare to design speed), and system detector
data (Volume and Occupancy).

Data Source Data Produced Used for                        Advantages                       Disadvantages/Limitations

Traffic Counts Traffic Volumes Timing                     Current source of data for Only 1 typical day of data (normally

               Turning                                    retiming                         excludes Mondays, Fridays, rainy days

               Movement                                   Required for capacity            & incidents) Only a snap shot in time

               Counts,                                    analysis

               Classifications

Travel Time    Travel times,                  Timing      Known method                     Labor intensive

Runs           Delay, Stops, LOS, Assessment              Could be used for                Limited data points

(Tru-Traffic)  speed, etc.                                monitoring                       Does not include traffic volumes

                                                          Current source of data for

                                                          assessment

Controller and Split Monitor                  Assessment  Can be collected with            Labor intensive (without remote

System         Gap-outs/Max-out Monitoring                current equipment                access)

Detectors      Through volumes                            Collected on a limited           Currently used informally for

               & occupancy                                basis to establish baseline assessment

                                                          for monitoring                   Doesn't account for side street

                                                          Helps with determining           volumes

                                                          the # of timing plans            Data aggregated in intervals of

                                                          needed, and event                specified sampling periods (typically

                                                          scheduling                       15min intervals)

Blue-tooth     Travel times                   Assessment  More data points than            Do not own devices

               Speeds                         Monitoring  travel runs                      Could be used for ICM assessment

                                                          Not as labor intensive           Not currently used, investigating

                                                          Possible use for ICM*

High-Resolution Arrival on green Assessment               Time-stamped data                Would require changing performance

Data           Gap outs                       Monitoring  Correlates speed, time,          measure to "arrival on green" vs.

               Cycle failures                             volume                           travel time

               Volume &                                   Some of the data may be Can be expensive

               Occupancy                                  useful for design                Not currently used

Vehicle Probe Speed                           Monitoring (?) May have a use with sub- Lower probes on low volume roads

data                                                      TMC codes on high volume Not currently being used in this way

                                                          arterials                        Not currently used, investigating

                                                          Possible use for ICM*

*Integrated Corridor Management (ICM) Assessment may include the evaluation of both arterial and interstate traffic.

 Value of having interstate traffic diverted to arterials versus being slowed or stopped due to an incident

 Efficiency of the arterial when traffic is diverted due to an incident on the interstate

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                                                                Data Needs and Applications
Program Management
TIMING
Project Process

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Project Process
Timing
Context of a Corridor

Identification of a corridor's context provides the background needed to select the appropriate operational objectives. It is
encouraged that stakeholders discuss the various characteristics, conditions, and preferences that define a corridor's
context to foster a consistent understanding of the existing conditions.

Characteristics & Conditions                        Design Considerations
Grid or arterial
Number of lanes                                     Consider cross-coordination for grid network.
Two-way or one-way streets
On-street parking                                   The number of lanes can impact the lane usage. More lanes often
Closely spaced intersections                        balance the distribution or traffic more equally.

Land use (retail, office, residential, etc.)        Offset considerations only apply to two-way streets.

Regional location                                   Can drastically reduce free flow speed.

Interstate performance will take priority over the  Want to minimize drivers stopping at consecutive closely spaced
arterial.                                           intersections.
Railroad preemption will take priority over the
corridor.                                           Long queues can block upstream intersections.
Undersaturated, saturated, or oversaturated
Traffic balanced or directional                     Determines which time-of-day plans may be necessary based on
Unnecessary delay during light traffic or at night  varying traffic impacts of different land uses (e.g., factory shift
Pedestrian/bicyclist activity                       schedules for industrial areas, holiday schedules for retail areas,
                                                    or school schedules).
Transit considerations
                                                    Different considerations for coastal or mountainous regions.
Input from the Division
Citizen Complaints                                  Different considerations for urban or rural areas.

                                                    Different considerations for municipalities.

                                                    Consideration for freeway ramps along the corridor to determine
                                                    if queues on the ramps can potentially back-up and impact the
                                                    freeway.

                                                    Consideration for side street delay amount during recovery of the
                                                    corridor after the railroad preemption has ended.

                                                    Can impact the operational objective chosen.

                                                    Consider if traffic has peak period fluctuations that could affect
                                                    the time of day plans and give priority to the heavier direction.

                                                    Consider removing coordination from corridor and allowing to
                                                    operate in free run conditions.

                                                    Consideration for bicycle lanes as well as crosswalk splits. Heavier
                                                    pedestrian and bike traffic can also impact free flow speeds on
                                                    the corridor.

                                                    Consider the number of stops along the corridor and whether
                                                    there is signal pre-emption. Transit stops that do not include their
                                                    own pull-out can impact the free flow travel speed.

                                                    Considers the different Division goals.

                                                    Can impact the goals or operational objectives.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual        Context of a Corridor
Timing
Establishing Operational Objectives

Each stakeholder involved in delivering the signal system timing plan should be involved in the identification of the
operational objectives. Identification of the appropriate operational objectives helps to address the specific needs of the
corridor as opposed to a blanket approach to implementing signal system timing plans. Once the objectives have been
identified, subsequent strategies and tactics can be identified for the signal timing plan development to accomplish the
noted operational objective(s) chosen for the corridor.

IDENTIFY OPERATIONAL OBJECTIVES

Operational Objectives: short term quantitative performance goals that align with the
Department's vision.

An assessment of the congestion conditions on the corridor can influence the selection of operational objectives. A corridor
can perform in undersaturated, saturated, and oversaturated conditions at different times of the day, but the prevailing
conditions during the peak period, or the time of day that warrants a revised signal system timing plan, should take
precedence while selecting. Figure 1 is intended to provide the user some guidance on which operational objectives are
most appropriate based on the saturation condition for a corridor.

The Division will work with the designer, and others as warranted, to identify the needs of a corridor. These needs can be
attributed to many driving factors such as citizen complaints or visual observations of the corridor performance. The needs
are not necessarily apples-to-apples to the defined operational objectives, but identifying these needs during the meeting
with the Division can support the identification of the desired operational objectives.

Table 1 presents a list of operational objectives and ways the objectives are most commonly used.

TABLE 1. OPERATIONAL OBJECTIVES

Operational Objective       Ways Operational Objectives Are Used
Improve Efficiency of Free  Modify an undersaturated individual traffic signal's timing parameters to minimize delay.
Run Ops
Regulate Speeds/Traffic     Restrain vehicles to a desired speed. Examples: Set the progression speed at or below the
Calming                     speed limit. Set offsets to cause planned stops restraining buildup of platoon speeds.
Minimize Cycle Failures     Modify to avoid vehicles not being served due to inadvertent gap-outs.
Improve Travel              Modification such that the average after travel time run is faster than the average before
Times/Minimize Delay        travel time run from one end of the corridor to the other end of the corridor.
Maximize Throughput         Modification to allow the maximum number of vehicles to traverse the corridor.
Improve Progression         Minimize number of stops.
Improve Safety              Modify corridor/network to reduce vehicle on vehicle, or vehicle on pedestrian/bicycle
                            accidents.
Reduce Citizen Complaints   Address issues raised by the public or politicians.
Reduce Congestion           Minimize the accumulation of vehicles in a specific area, or to minimize the time length of
                            the accumulation.
Minimize Environmental      Maximize fuel economy, minimize fuel consumption, or minimize pollution (carbon
Impacts                     monoxide, mono-nitrogen oxides, and volatile organic compounds) emissions.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Establishing Operational Objectives
Timing                                                                           Page 1
Establishing Operational Objectives

Operational Objective  Ways Operational Objectives Are Used
Manage Planned Events
                       Develop signal system timing plans to accommodate planned events such as concerts and
Manage Unplanned       sports events.
Incidents
                       Develop signal system timing plans that can accommodate anticipated oversaturated
Queue Management       traffic caused by an incident within the corridor/network or nearby. Example: Given an
                       arterial that parallels an Interstate, develop a signal system timing plan for the arterial
                       that accommodates traffic diverting from an accident on the Interstate.

                       Modifications to avoid left turn bay spillovers into the through lanes or vehicle queues
                       between closely spaced intersections that reduce the effective green of the through
                       movement.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Establishing Operational Objectives
Timing                                                                           Page 2
Establishing Operational Objectives

FIGURE 1. SELECTION OF OBJECTIVES, STRATEGIES, AND TACTICS  Establishing Operational Objectives
                                                                                               Page 3
NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual
Timing
Establishing Operational Objectives

IDENTIFY STRATEGIES

Strategy: a high-level method or plan of action to achieve one or more objectives

Refer to Figure 1 to select strategies that correspond with identified operational objectives. Table 2 presents descriptions of
the strategies listed in Figure 1 and the associated actions.

TABLE 2. STRATEGIES

Strategies              Action Plan

Meter Traffic Entering  Develop a timing plan (cycle length, splits, offsets, phase order) for an oversaturated
Storage Areas           corridor/network that restricts vehicles entering a short turn bay or short link between
                        closely spaced intersections and queue the vehicles where there is adequate storage.

Manage Queues           Develop a timing plan for an oversaturated corridor/network that avoids turn bay spillback
                        into through lanes, approach spillback to upstream intersections, and through lane queues
                        blocking entry into turn bays.

Traffic Responsive      Develop and threshold settings to automatically change signal system timing plans based on
Operation               traffic volume, occupancy and directionality.

Integrated Corridor     Develop a group of signal system timing plans for manual implementation.
Management

Flush Plan              Develop a signal system timing plan designed to maximize vehicle throughput for a preferred
                        movement or direction.

Provide Left-turn       Modify a corridor/network that facilitates either 1) a high volume side-street left movement
Progression             becoming a platoon that travels along a corridor with a minimum of stops/delays at
                        intersections, or 2) minimum delay for left turning vehicles from a platoon with a high
                        proportion of left-turning vehicles to achieve the objective of managing planned events

Progress Certain Side   Modify the network to allow vehicle platoons to travel along a the side street(s) with a
Streets                 minimum of stops/delays at intersections to achieve the objective of managing planned
                        events.

Reduce Emissions        Develop a timing plan with the primary goal of minimizing tailpipe emissions to achieve the
                        objective of minimizing environmental impacts.

Reduce Fuel             Develop a timing plan with the primary goal of minimizing fuel consumption to achieve the
Consumption             objective of minimizing environmental impacts.

Reduce Stops            Develop a timing plan for a saturated or oversaturated corridor/network to minimize the
                        number of stops on the mainline or for the entire network.

Increase Percent Arrival Develop a timing plan for a saturated or oversaturated corridor/network that minimizes

on Green                mainline vehicle platoons arriving at intersections on red indication.

Balance Queues          Develop a timing plan for a saturated or oversaturated corridor/network so that the queues
                        on all approaches are generally the same length with the aim of equitably distributing queues
                        and sharing delay.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Establishing Operational Objectives
Timing                                                                           Page 4
Establishing Operational Objectives

Strategies               Action Plan
Optimize Mainline
Progression              Develop a timing plan for an undersaturated or saturated corridor/network that allows
                         vehicle platoons to travel along a corridor in the primary direction of traffic flow with a
Bi-directional           minimum of stops/delays at intersections.
Progression
                         Develop a timing plan for an undersaturated or saturated corridor that allows vehicle
Transit Progression      platoons to travel along a corridor in both directions with a minimum of stops/delays at
                         intersections.
Pedestrian Progression
                         Use of equipment, software and/or timing plans that allow busses priority travel along a
Bicycle progression      corridor with a minimum of stops/delays at intersections.

Maximize Mainline        Develop a timing plan that allow pedestrians to walk at 3.5 feet per second along the
Capacity                 corridor/network with a minimum of waiting at the intersections.
Reduce Vehicle Delays
                         Use of equipment or development of timing plans that allow bicyclists to ride along the
Reduce Transit Delay     corridor/network at an average bicycle speed with a minimum of delay at the intersections.

Reduce Pedestrian        Develop a timing plan for an undersaturated or saturated corridor that provides as much
Delay                    green time as possible to the mainline through movements.
Reduce Bike Delay
                         Develop a timing plan for an undersaturated or saturated corridor/network to minimize the
Reduce Max Outs (free    amount of time vehicles are stopped or traveling below the speed limit.
run)
Reduce Cycle and Split   Use of equipment, software and/or timing plans that allow busses to minimize the amount of
Failures                 time they are stopped or traveling below the speed limit.
Reduce Progression
("cut through traffic")  Use of equipment or development of timing plans on a corridor/network to minimize
Fine-tune Individual     pedestrian wait times at intersections.
Signal Parameters
                         Use of equipment or development of timing plans on a corridor/network that minimize
                         bicyclists' wait times at intersections.

                         Provide adequate Max Green values for individual traffic signals during undersaturated
                         actuated-uncoordinated operation.

                         Develop a timing plan for an undersaturated corridor/network to ensure all vehicles are
                         served each cycle.

                         Develop a timing plan for an undersaturated corridor/network that limits vehicle platoon
                         progression speed to the speed limit or below.

                         Modify individual traffic signal timing parameters such as Min Green, gap/extension, Max
                         Green.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Establishing Operational Objectives
Timing                                                                           Page 5
Establishing Operational Objectives

IDENTIFY TACTICS

Tactic: an action implemented as one or more specific tasks to achieve a result (strategy). One
or more tactics may be available to achieve a specific strategy.

Refer to Figure 1 to select tactics that correspond with identified strategies. Each tactic also has a rating on a scale of  to
, with  being the most effective tactic for achieving the corresponding strategy. Table 3 presents descriptions of the
tactics listed in Figure 1.

TABLE 3. TACTICS

Tactics                   Actions

Optimize Cycle Lengths Chosen to best achieve the desired strategy such as minimum corridor or network delay.

Long Cycle Length         Chosen that is longer than optimized to best achieve the desired strategy such as maximum
                          arterial throughput of vehicles along a corridor.

Short Cycle Length        Chosen that is shorter than optimized to best achieve the desired strategy such as limiting
                          the traffic into a short link (metering traffic).

Half/Double Cycle         Allows phases to be serviced twice as often as the majority of the other intersections in the
Length                    coordinated system.

Alternate Cycles Length   A coordinated system that neither matches the system's common cycle length, half cycle, or
                          double cycle. Example: a cycle length that is a 1.5 multiple of the coordinated system's
                          common cycle length.

Resonant Cycle Length     Allows bi-directional progression through evenly spaced intersections on a coordinated
                          arterial.

Determine Phase           Changing the order of left turn phases (compared with the opposing thru phase) to best
Sequence                  accommodate platoons of traffic traveling through the intersection along a corridor.

         Lead-Lead Left-  This most commonly used phase sequence has both left turn phases displaying left arrows
         Turn Phase       before the respective opposing thru movement phase displays a green ball.
         Sequence.        Example: Phase 1 (westbound left) leads Phase 2 (eastbound thru), and Phase 5 (eastbound
                          left) leads Phase 6 (westbound thru) on the major roadway.

         Lag-Lag Left-    This phase sequence has both left turn phases displaying left arrows after the respective
         Turn Phase       opposing thru movement phase displays a green ball. This is the opposite of Lead-Lead and
         Sequence.        can be useful at an interchange or a pair of closely spaced intersections. Example: Phase 1
                          (westbound left) lags Phase 2 (eastbound thru), and Phase 5 (eastbound left) lags Phase 6
                          (westbound thru) on the major roadway.

         Lead-Lag Left-   This phase sequence has one left turn phase display its arrow before the opposing through
         Turn Phase       movement phase displays a green ball, while the other left turn phase displays its arrow after
         Sequence         its opposing through movement phase displays a green ball. The Lead-Lag sequence is usually
                          used to accommodate through movement progression along the major roadway. Example:
                          Phase 1 (westbound left) leads Phase 2 (eastbound thru), and Phase 5 (eastbound left) lags
                          Phase 6 (westbound thru) on the major roadway.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Establishing Operational Objectives
Timing                                                                           Page 6
Establishing Operational Objectives

Tactics               Actions
Phase Reservice
                      A controller function that allows a left turn phase to operate before and after its opposing
Optimize Offsets      through phase. Example: Use phase reservice for a left turn phase where the average queue
Optimize Max Green    exceeds the turn bay length.
Time
                      Time relationships between traffic signals (offsets) in a network to best achieve the desired
Adjust Max and        strategy such as maximum arterial bandwidth (green band)
Extension Times
Optimize Gap Time     A phase green time chosen for actuated-uncoordinated operation that provides enough time
Optimize Ped/Walk     to serve the average traffic demand plus the majority of fluctuations above average traffic. A
Time                  general rule-of-thumb is the phase's traffic volume divided by the sum of the critical
                      movements' volumes multiplied by an assumed cycle length multiplied by 1.25 or 1.5. See
Minimize Number of    Critical Movement Analysis/Quick Estimation Method in Chapter 10 of the HCM 2000 for
Transitions           more detail.

Minimize Duration of  Adjust max green and extension during actuated-uncoordinated operation to minimize green
Transitions           time for movement for light traffic. Extension is also known as passage time, vehicle
                      intervals, gap, passage gap and unit extension.
Determine Permissive
Mode                  Adjust the gap time so that cycle failures do not occur due to long vehicle start up times.
                      Example: Trucks require more time to start moving from a stop than other vehicles.

                      The Ped/Walk time is usually 7 seconds but may be reduced to a minimum of 4 seconds for
                      intersections with low pedestrian volumes, or it may need to be increased to 10 seconds, 15
                      seconds or higher at intersections with high pedestrian volumes, in school zones or in areas
                      with elderly pedestrians. Note: A change in Walk time may affect the calculation of the
                      flashing don't walk (FDW) time. Reference the current version of the MUTCD and consult
                      with NCDOT prior to modifying the Ped/Walk time.

                      Develop a signal timing plan that minimizes the potential number of transitions that can
                      occur. Minimizing the number of transitions allows the corridor to perform the defined signal
                      timing plan for longer periods and avoids the time spent in transition. Transitions can
                      introduce the most ineffective period of signal timing on a corridor.

                      Transition is the process of entering into a coordinated timing plan or changing between two
                      plans. Timing plans that are flexible enough to accommodate traffic fluctuations can operate
                      longer during the day, thus minimizing transitions between timing plans. Minimizing the
                      actual transition time is determined by the controller's specified transition method.
                      Controllers generally have several methods for transitioning. The fastest method may be
                      determined by reading the controller manual, talking with a signal technician familiar with
                      the specific type of controller, or through experimentation.

                      Periods in the cycle that designate when the next phase that is allowed to be served. Auto ­
                      periods calculated automatically; Open ­ periods open for all phases when the coordinated
                      phase ends; Manual ­ periods for all phases entered manually.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Establishing Operational Objectives
Timing                                                                           Page 7
Establishing Operational Objectives

DETERMINE THE SATURATION CONDITION OF THE CORRIDOR

Determining whether a corridor has undersaturated, saturated, or oversaturated traffic conditions is a combination of
observing the context and evaluating the operational performance.

Table 4 includes field observations that should be considered.

TABLE 4. FIELD SYMPTOMS

"Symptoms" in the Field (Traffic)             Description
Cycle failure
Residual queues                                Traffic queued at the beginning of green does not clear in one cycle
Turn Bay Spillback                             Queues that continue to build each cycle due to cycle failures
Blocking                                       Queues from a turn bay spilling back into a through lane
Approach Spillback                             Through movement queues blocking entrance to turn bays
Starvation                                     Queue from one intersection extends to an upstream intersection
                                               Demand from an upstream intersection cannot reach downstream
Intersection Blocking                          intersection to use available capacity
                                               Traffic on one approach queues through an intersection blocking traffic
                                               from another approach

Degree of Saturation

Undersaturated Traffic Conditions
Undersaturated conditions is the `under capacity' of the network and intersections. Volume-to-capacity (v/c) ratios are less
than 0.85.

Conditions typically are stable and relatively predictable, but can have the occasional cycle failure of movements.
Additionally, the presence of congestion may not indicate that a corridor or individual signal is oversaturated. The corridor
or signal may be undersaturated and the congestion could be the result of poor signal system timing parameters such as an
excessively long cycle length, insufficient split, or bad offsets.

Saturated Traffic Conditions
Saturated conditions are when the network and intersection are `at capacity.' There is a clear balance of green time versus
queue buildup.

Oversaturated Traffic Conditions
Oversaturated conditions are `exceeding capacity' along the network or intersections. V/C ratio is greater than 1.0.

Conditions are unstable with excessive delays and expected queue buildup. The severity and impacts of the oversaturation
also are critical to note when developing timing plans to mitigate it. For example, oversaturation at an interchange between
an arterial and freeway that causes ramp traffic to spillback from the arterial onto the freeway should be treated differently
from oversaturation on one approach to an intersection with ample queue storage available.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Establishing Operational Objectives
Timing                                                                           Page 8
Establishing Operational Objectives

Considerations for Oversaturation

It is important to define the corridor including the scale of the impacts of oversaturation. The following items should be
considered and noted prior to retiming the signal system.

      The number of affected intersection movements/ approaches
      The number of affected intersections
      The number of affected routes
      The direction(s) of travel
      Duration and time periods of oversaturation
      Frequency of oversaturation (recurrent or intermittent)

Additionally, certain scenarios are likely to impact or drive the oversaturation of the corridor. The following potential causal
factors also should be noted.

      Planned special events
      Anomalous events

                o Crashes
                o Weather
                o Work zones
      Conflicting modes of travel
      Traffic signal system operations
      Geometrics
      Traffic demand

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Establishing Operational Objectives
Timing                                                                           Page 9
Field Visit Protocol

When performing field visits for signal system timing work, everyone should follow protocol specified in the project scope.
Additional best practices are listed below.

      Coordination
                o Contact the Division prior to any field visit. If the signal is part of a construction project, coordinate with
                     the contractor through the resident engineer.

      Safety (Elements covered in the safety guidelines include: safety vest, moving traffic, multiple people, etc.)
                o Follow all safety guidelines as outlined in the:
                            North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) Standard Specifications for Roads and
                                Structures (2012 version).
                            NCDOT Workplace Safety Manual, specially SOP#11B-87 and 11B-881.
                            NCDOT Safety Policy and Procedure Manual (framework for the NCDOT Occupational Safety and
                                Health (OSH))2.
                            2009 version of the Manual of Uniformed Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD)3.

      Fieldwork
                o Reference all relevant notes from Division meetings.
                o Document any timing changes in the log book in the cabinet.
                o Do not upload signal timing plans after hours when technicians are not available.

1 https://connect.ncdot.gov/resources/documents/workplace%20safety%20manual.pdf
2 https://connect.ncdot.gov/resources/Documents/Safety%20Policy%20and%20Procedure%20Manual.pdf
3 http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                                                    Field Visit Protocol
Timing
Data Collection

Prior to the initial field visit, it is important to assemble certain key documents to aid in data collection. Once in the field,
most notes are made on the existing documentation, while others may be noted as necessary within accompanying notes.

There is a certain amount of data collection that can occur before performing the initial field visit. This includes assembling
the following, as appropriate for the corridor.

      Google Maps
      Signal Plans
      Existing Timing Plans
      COST Database
      Traffic Counts
      Split Monitor Data (in lieu of traffic counts)
      System Detectors Volumes
      Contact Traffic Generators
      Citizen Complaints

During the initial field visit, the data assembled above should be referenced and integrated with the following field data
collection that also is most appropriate for the corridor.

      Upload controller data if communication cannot be established remotely
      Field Observations

                o Verify critical intersections
                o Observe traffic patterns to identify any "surprises" that may not have been identified in the traffic data
                o Verify intersection configuration matches signal design plans
                o Verify the distance between intersections
                o Identify mid-block access
                o Verify Signal Plans have been implemented and match existing conditions
                o Identify any equipment or communication issues that need addressing in the field before design
      Identify Controlling Intersections
      Identify lane utilization
      Determine which intersections to count
                o Identify turning movement counts
      Stop Watch Timing (in lieu of traffic counts)
      Measure Speed (needed for Synchro)
      Measure Saturation Flow (needed for Synchro)
      Meet with Division personnel (training or technical issues)

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Data Collection
Timing
Final Report Recommendations

As part of the final report, there often is a recommendations section that can be easily extracted for sharing with other
individuals and operating units. The recommendations may include feedback on items that are affecting the corridor and
signal timing performance such as geometric changes, broken loops, equipment failures, or even the need for additional
timing plans. The documentation for the recommendations should be organized as follows.

      Recommendations should be documented in paragraph form.
      The recommendations section of the report should include a checklist with added details as needed (i.e. develop

          standard check list form to be used with report, with room to add extra details/explanations).

INTERNAL COMMUNICATION

Once received, the recommendations should be extracted and shared with the following NCDOT individuals, as appropriate.

      Regional Traffic Engineer
      Units within Mobility and Safety

                o Signals & ITS
                o Congestion Management
                o Safety
      Division Personnel beyond Traffic Services/Division Traffic Engineer (DTE)/Deputy Division Traffic Engineer (DDTE)

CONSIDERATION FACTORS

Table 1 provides examples of additional recommendations beyond signal system timing improvements. For ease in
consideration and sharing with others, they are grouped into specific categories.

TABLE 1. SECONDARY RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVED CORRIDOR OPERATIONS

     Category                              Recommendation Factors for Consideration
Geometrics
                Add lanes
Signals         Extend lanes
                Other type of widening (radius, taper, etc.)
Communication   Revise pavement markings
Needs           Update pavement markings (repaint faded PM, add arrows, etc.)
                Islands (add/delete, Right-In-Right-Out (RIRO), etc.)
                Yield (revise/add/delete)
                Sight distance
                Lane continuity
                Heads (add/revise/delete/upgrade)
                Flashing Yellow Arrows (FYAs)
                Pedestrian (heads, crossings, etc.)
                Loops (System, Calling (presence/upstream), Queue, Force-Off, etc.)
                System detectors assigned
                Sight distance
                Is working
                Fiber Optic
                Wireless
                Phone Drop

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Final Report Recommendations
Timing                                                                      Page 1
Final Report Recommendations

     Category                                  Recommendation Factors for Consideration
Phasing
                    Lead-lag
Maintenance         Add/delete/revise current phasing
                    Split side-street (add/delete/revise)
Additional Timing   Identify potential/actual yellow-trap situation
Plans Needed        Revise protected to Protected-Permissive, or vice versa
(i.e. not           Revise permissive to Protected-Permissive/Protected
funded/in scope)    Correct street coordinated (i.e. main vs. side, equal volumes, traffic patterns changed, etc.)
Signs               Pre-timed vs. actuated
                    Alternative Cycle Length (Required Electrical Detail modification)
                    Controller functions
                    Loops (system, et al)
                    Detector cards
                    Wiring
                    Poles (wood, metal, guys, etc.)
                    Sight distance (i.e. tree trimming needs)
                    Weekend
                    School
                    Holiday
                    Hurricane
                    Incident Management
                    Shift Work
                    Lane Control
                    Signal Ahead
                    Regulatory
                    Pedestrian

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Final Report Recommendations
Timing                                                                      Page 2
"High Priority Ped" Tool For Coordinated Phases

OASIS SOFTWARE

The "High Priority Ped" tool in the Oasis software package works differently on coordinated phases. Pedestrian clearance
times that exceed splits cannot be implemented for coordinated phases the way they can for a minor phase. With current
Oasis functionality, it is understood that coordinated phases will have enough time to cover the ped times. This document
explains a work-around solution for situations where main street ped clearance times are very high. The solution is to force
the signal into free run any time the ped phases in question are active.

PROCESS

The "High Priority Ped" work-around solution consists of the following steps:
      The coordination plan uses an alternate timing page with the values for "Don't Walk 1" set to zero. "Walk 1" times
          remain the same. This will prevent the "Bad Split on Phase X" outcome.
      Inputs 63 and 64 are programmed as "Timing Page = 1" and "Coordination Plan = free".
      A logic step is programmed to activate inputs 63 and 64 when either ped walk or ped FDW is active. This step will
          tell the signal to go into free run and switch to timing page 1, which has the correct "Don't Walk 1" times. (This
          logic step must be enabled on the Phase Control page.)
      If you are using an alternate sequence, that sequence must be scheduled by time of day to run concurrently with
          the coordination plan. This will prevent the signal from switching sequence pages when input 64 (Coordination =
          free) is active.
      Additionally, on page D-2 (General Communications Configuration), "Comm Fail Return to TOD" must be set to
          zero. If it is not set to zero, the controller will ignore the input to go into free run and generate a "Bad Split" error
          when the timing page switches.

Sample Programming

For this example it is assumed that both phases 2 and 6 have extremely high ped clearance times.

                                            FIGURE 1. OASIS PHASE CONTROL PAGE

                                                  FIGURE 2. OASIS INPUTS PAGE

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  "High Priority Ped" Tool for Coordinated Phases
Timing                                                                                          Page 1
"High Priority Ped" Tool For Coordinated Phases

OASIS SOFTWARE

                                                   FIGURE 3. OASIS LOGIC PAGE

For an example schedule, consider Plan 1 and assume that it is using Sequence Page 2. That sequence would have to be
scheduled to start and end at the same time as the coord plan. See event 16 in
Figure 4:

                                     FIGURE 4. OASIS SEQUENCE PAGE 2 (SEE EVENT 16)
Event 44 also requires programming, as shown in Figure 5:

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  "High Priority Ped" Tool for Coordinated Phases
Timing                                                                                          Page 2
"High Priority Ped" Tool For Coordinated Phases

OASIS SOFTWARE

                                     FIGURE 5. OASIS SEQUENCE PAGE 2 (SEE EVENT 44)

Coordination

It is important to alert the Division to implementation of the "High Priority Ped" process.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  "High Priority Ped" Tool for Coordinated Phases
Timing                                                                                          Page 3
Alternative Timing Plans

Alternative timing plans can be developed for planned or unplanned incidents or major construction projects. This section
addresses guidelines for the following types of alternative timing plans:

      Incident Management Plans
      Hurricane Evacuation Plans
      Temporary Timing Plans
      Special Event Timing Plans

INCIDENT MANAGEMENT PLANS

When a crash or other unplanned incident occurs on the interstate or an access controlled facility, development of signal
system timing plans should be considered to account for traffic detours onto surface streets. These timing plans should
account for worst case scenario during the peak hour operations. These timing plans are to be developed in conjunction
with the regular non-incident management timing plans.

Corridor Parameters

Document a profile of the corridor's incident management process.

      Stakeholders ­ List of agencies involved and contact information.
      Routes

                o Specific locations of the incidents
                o Details of the detour route
                o Laneage on the detour route (surface street)
                o Number of signals included
      Incident Information
                o Locations ­ Identify locations of frequent incidents
                o Scope of Impact ­ Identify the interchanges and intersections impacted
                o Durations ­ Identify the typical clearance time
      Communications Infrastructure
                o Isolated signals
                o Available communication
                o Type (dial-up/wireless)

Develop Timing Plans

      Cycle Lengths
                o Standard ­ Incidents are typical and the responses are predictable
                o Non-Standard ­ Incidents are not typical and the responses may be worst case scenario
                o Maximum green band on the detour route
                o Minimum splits for the side streets and the left turn phases

      Triggers
                o Develop thresholds ­ Identify measure for activating the incident management plan (examples include:
                     average travel speeds, incident confirmed)

      Define the Activation Protocol
                o Confirm the owner of the signal system.
                o Confirm who will have access for activating incident management timing plans.
                o Standardize incident management timing plan numbers
                            Numbering would be in the 50's (i.e. Plan 51 through Plan 59

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Alternative Timing Plans
Timing                                                             Page 1
Alternative Timing Plans

      Validation
                o Field test the incident management plan during an off-peak period.
                o Follow-up after first implementation to evaluate plan.

HURRICANE EVACUATION PLANS

The development of hurricane evacuation plans follows the same process as incident management timing plans.

TEMPORARY TIMING PLANS

Phasing of construction projects often can introduce multiple traffic patterns to a corridor. Not only does the final corridor
warrant a new signal system timing plan, but the variations on the traffic patterns also can require the need for temporary
timing plans to mitigate impacts on traffic. It is important however that the amount of effort expended to develop and
implement the temporary timing plans are proportional to the duration of the impacts.

SPECIAL EVENT TIMING PLANS

Signal system timing plans for special events can resemble incident management flush plans, or they can be customized.
Examples of special events include:

      Holidays
      Football games
      Major concert or arena events
      U.S. Open

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Alternative Timing Plans
Timing                                                             Page 2
ASSESSMENT
Standard Practice for Performing Travel Time Runs

This document present the NCDOT Standard Practice for performing Tru-Traffic Travel Time Runs for the evaluation of
traffic signal system timing. This standard practice has been incorporated and referenced in the scopes for projects being
initiated for 2017.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

      Tru-Traffic Version 10 with a GPS receiver is the only acceptable data collection method for this Standard Practice.

STUDY PERIOD

      Typically, the study period for travel runs are the peak traffic periods by direction.
      Possible peak traffic periods may include:

                o Weekday peak traffic periods (i.e. AM, PM, Noon, etc.)
                o School start/end or class change
                o Seasonal traffic
                o Special events
                o Holidays
                o Incident management scenarios (i.e. detour routes, hurricane evacuations, etc.)
      The study period(s) will be defined by the Department.

DATA COLLECTION STANDARDS

      Travel time runs should be representative of typical trips through the system. Runs skewed by bus stops, trains,
          crashes, turning traffic, or other obstructions should be discarded.

      Runs should not be performed during the following conditions, (unless the study period has been specifically
          defined for that condition):
                o Lane closure or active work zone
                o Adverse weather (rain, snow, etc.)
                o On a Monday or Friday
                o During special events

      Tru-Traffic must be synced with the appropriate timing plan before beginning run (See Sync Clocks).
      Driving style should be the "floating car" method where the driver "floats" with the traffic by attempting to safely

          pass as many vehicles as passed the test vehicle.

NUMBER OF RUNS

      Six (6) or more travel runs per direction should be completed for each study period. An exception to this minimum
          may be granted by the Department.

      Multiple days may be required to complete the minimum number of runs, depending on the length of the corridor.
      Attempt to spread runs so that they are performed in a variety of positions in the queue.

SYNC CLOCKS

      Sync Tru-Traffic file to timing plan at the beginning of red of the coordinated phase when there's a call on the
          subsequent phase.

      Watch one cycle to confirm that the file is synced correctly with the timing plan before beginning travel run.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Standard Practice for Performing Travel Time Runs
Assessment                                                                                          Page 1
Standard Practice for Performing Travel Time Runs

REPORTING

      Generate reports (Travel Time, Delay, Stops, Speed and LOS) that show the current operational status of the signal
          system

      Tru-Traffic Travel Time & Delay Report that includes:
                o Reports
                            Cumulative Travel Time (CTT)
                            Cumulative Delay (CD)
                            Cumulative Stopped Delay (CStopD)
                            Cumulative Actual Average Speed (CAS)
                            Cumulative Number of Stops in Run (CStops)
                            Levels of Service Delay (LOSDelay)
                            Cumulative Urban Street LOS (CSpeedLOS)

                o Cumulative summaries for each separate direction of coordination and a cumulative summary of both
                     directions together (i.e. "Cumulative Summary of all runs, either direction through the artery") for
                     each/all of the timing plans

                o All trip logs used to generate the reports

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Standard Practice for Performing Travel Time Runs
Assessment                                                                                          Page 2
Cost Benefit Analysis

NCDOT requires "before" and "after" analyses to measure traffic operational enhancements associated with traffic signal
system retiming initiatives. This analysis is normally performed using:

      Model projections from an approved computer-based traffic modeling software such as Synchro Plus SimTraffic,
          and

      Field measured travel time studies from approved GPS software that will generate a Travel Time & Delay Report
          such as Tru-Traffic.

The benefits associated with a traffic signal system retiming initiative are typically expressed as travel time savings through
reductions in overall system travel time, stops, and delay measurements. These improvements are best evaluated using the
Travel Time and Delay Report developed from the travel time study data in Tru-Traffic. In addition to travel time savings,
the traffic signal system retiming initiative is expected to yield environmental benefits such as reduced emissions (NOx, HC,
and CO) and fuel usage. When required as part of an analysis, these environmental benefits are best measured in the
SimTraffic simulation software.

While travel time savings and adverse environmental reductions are good indicators of the success of the signal system
retiming initiative, it is often useful to translate these benefits into monetary savings expressed as part of a cost benefit
analysis. To ensure all traffic signal systems retiming initiatives performed for NCDOT are evaluated equally, the
methodology herein should be followed to determine the expected benefit cost savings when such an analysis is required
as part of a traffic signal system retiming initiative.

DATA ACQUISITION AND EVALUATION

When retiming a traffic signal system, the Engineer is required to collect a wide variety of field data to develop their new
timing plans as well as to prepare a "before" and "after" analysis of the system operation. Field data includes, but is not
limited to, intersection schematics such a lane configurations and distances between traffic signals; field observations such
as posted speed limits; volume data including 24-hour tube counts and 12-hour turning movement counts; existing traffic
signal system timing and coordination data as programmed in the field; and travel time and delay data. As part of the
existing traffic signal system timing and coordination data, cycle lengths, splits, offsets, sequencing, and time-of-day/day-of-
week patterns must be extracted from each local controller during the initial field investigation.

Following field data collection, the Engineer will analyze "before" traffic operational measures and develop new traffic
signal system timing plans which will be used for the "after" analysis of the system operations. The new traffic signal system
timing plans are to be submitted to NCDOT for review and approval. Following review and approval by NCDOT, the Engineer
will implement the new traffic signal system timing plans in the field. During implementation, the Engineer will make cycle
length, split, and offset adjustments to fine-tune the new traffic signal system timing plans based on field observations of
system operations. Following this fine-tuning of the plans, the Engineer will revise all traffic modeling projections and travel
time study databases to reflect actual timing values now operating in the field. This step is critical to ensuring accurate
representation of the improvements attained in the cost benefit analyses.

At the completion of field implementation and fine-tuning of the traffic signal system timing plans, the Engineer will
evaluate the cost benefit achieved by the retiming initiative when required. To perform the cost benefit, the Engineer will
calculate the annual cost benefit resulting from travel time savings and from environmental savings. The total annual cost
benefit for the traffic signal system retiming initiative will be the sum of these two savings. The following pages provide
detailed information on the required data collection parameters for a cost benefit analysis. They include cost benefit factors
and annual cost benefit formulas for the analysis along with those parameters specific to the travel time savings and the
environmental savings.

ANNUAL COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS FOR TRAVEL TIME SAVINGS

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual          Cost Benefit Analysis
Assessment                                                             Page 1
Cost Benefit Analysis

The Engineer will calculate an annual cost benefit for travel time savings. The travel time savings benefit is comprised of a
reduced delay savings and a reduction in stops savings. The following process should be followed to calculate these two
components.

Step 1: Peak Hour Volumes ­ Peak Hour Volumes should be calculated as the sum of the main corridor's approaching
movements (Eastbound and Westbound OR Northbound and Southbound).

FIGURE 1. SAMPLE SIGNAL SYSTEM LAYOUT

For example, to calculate the peak hour volumes for the above illustrated traffic signal system, confirm which corridor the
travel time study was completed along. For this example, assume a travel time study was completed during the peak hours
along 1st Street between Intersection 1 and Intersection 4. Because Intersection 5 was not included in the travel time study,
its peak hour volumes will not be considered in the annual cost benefit calculation. Use the cumulative eastbound and
westbound volumes along 1st Street at Intersection 1, 2, 3, and 4 to determine the system's peak hour volumes as shown in
Table 1.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Cost Benefit Analysis
Assessment                                                     Page 2
Cost Benefit Analysis

TABLE 1. TURNING MOVEMENT COUNTS

Turning Movement Count - AM PEAK
60 Minute Volume Data

Int  NBL NBT NBR SBL                          SBT SBR EBL EBT EBR WBL WBT          WBR
 #                                                                                  40
                                                                                    15
1 41 118 53 44 119 34 63 225 60 54 150                                              10
                                                                                    39
2 14 19 27                                    8 16 3  4 262 22 16 270
                                                                                   2522
3    5  4  7 10 4                             5       4 301 7 14 286
                                                                                   WBR
4 85 52 6 13 5 52 204 142 77 7 250                                                  57
                                                                                    19
                                                      Peak Hour TOTAL - AM Peak     14
                                                                                    14
Turning Movement Count - NOON PEAK
60 Minute Volume Data                                                              2408

Int  NBL NBT NBR SBL                          SBT SBR EBL EBT EBR WBL WBT          WBR
 #                                                                                  39
                                                                                    13
1 78 119 67 73 178 37 43 154 43 61 141                                               4
                                                                                    48
2 15 14 25 9 16 9 11 257 16 23 296
                                                                                   3381
3    6  16 17 11 6 18 11 295 11 20 300                                             8311

4 91 42 6 15 9 54 108 218 105 10 181

                                                      Peak Hour TOTAL - NOON Peak

Turning Movement Count - PM PEAK
60 Minute Volume Data

Int  NBL NBT NBR SBL                          SBT SBR EBL EBT EBR WBL WBT
 #

1 67 232 93 55 277 74 87 251 37 95 237

2 24 29 33 8 23 16 2 379 18 22 381

3    4  8 12 13 9                             7       6 387 21 19 403

4 111 54 5 38 2 91 173 368 184 9 198

                                                      Peak Hour TOTAL - PM Peak

                                              Sum of Peak Hour TOTALS - All Peaks

Step 2: Travel Time Savings ­ The change in Travel Delay (seconds/veh) and Cumulative Stops (stops/veh) from "before" to
"after" should be calculated by Tru-Traffic and presented in tabular form. Table 2 is an example of a typical Travel Time &
Delay Report generated by Tru-Traffic. The highlighted values are required for the Annual Cost Benefit Analysis and will be
used for the example system.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                                       Cost Benefit Analysis
Assessment                                                                                          Page 3
Cost Benefit Analysis

TABLE 2. TRU-TRAFFIC TRAVEL TIME & DELAY REPORT

                     Cumulative Summary of all runs, either direction through artery

44 Before-type runs, collected Tuesday 9/17/2013 to Tuesday 9/17/2013, over day(s) Tue, with starting times during 7:02:04 AM to 5:49:14 PM
44 After-type runs, collected Thursday 10/3/2013 to Thursday 10/3/2013, over day(s) Thu, with starting times during 6:59:41 AM to 5:59:39 PM

                                       CTT CD CStopD CBS1T CStops DperInt LOSDelay CUFFC

                                              to End of Artery

Average Before (n=44) 140 38                  26   28           1.2   7.6   A    0.0

Std Dev Before (n=44)  35 40                  36   34           0.9   8.1   1    0.0

Average After (n=44)   113 9                  10   11           0.6   1.8   A    0.0

Std Dev After (n=44)   17 21                  13   13           0.7   4.2   0    0.0

Difference             -27 -29                -17  -16          -0.5  -5.8  0    0.0

Std Dev Difference     39 45                  38   37           1.1   9.1   1    0.0

% Difference           -20% -76% -63% -59% -45.1% -76.5%                    N/A  N/D

Step 3: Evaluation Parameters ­ The following parameters should be used for conversion of travel time savings to a
monetary value.

          A. Cost of Delay ­ The cost of delay, also referred to as wasted person-time, is the value of the time lost in travel
                delay. For consistency on all traffic signal system retiming projects, the Engineer should use values found in
                the North Carolina Statewide Median Hourly Wage for All Occupations for the project year (or closest reported
                year), as reported by the United States Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics at:

                http://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_nc.htm

                In 2015, the cost of delay is $15.91 per hour and is the value that will be used for the example system.

          B. Cost per Stop ­ The cost per stop is the assumed cost of fuel, oil, tires, general maintenance, and vehicle
                depreciation as determined by calculations in AASHTO's Manual on Road User Benefit Analysis. This value is
                currently $0.014 per stop and is the value that will be used for the example system.

          C. Analysis Days per Year ­ In the cost benefit analysis, 250 days per year represents the number of typical
                weekdays in a year. This is derived from 365/366 days per year less weekends and holidays. This factor is
                important as Travel Time Savings reported from the Travel Time Study only represent conditions for the
                weekday peaks.

Step 4: Annual Cost Benefit Formula for Travel Time Savings ­ Using the calculated peak hour volumes, highlighted travel
time savings data, and conversion parameters, calculate the monetary travel time savings as follows.

          A. Annual Cost Benefit of Reduced Delay

                                        [Sum of Peak Hour Volumes (vehicles) *
                    Change in Travel Delay (seconds / vehicle) * (1 hour / 3600 seconds)] *

                          Cost of Delay ($ / hour) * Analysis Days per Year (days / year)

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                                     Cost Benefit Analysis
Assessment                                                                                        Page 4
Cost Benefit Analysis

                For the example system, the Annual Cost Benefit of Reduced Delay is:

                                [8,311 veh * 29 sec/veh* (1 hr/3600 sec)] * $15.91/hr *250 days/yr = $266,293

          B. Annual Cost Benefit of Fewer Stops

                                       [Sum of Peak Hour Volumes (vehicles) *
              Change Cumulative Stops (stops / vehicle)] * Cost per Stop ($ / stop) * Analysis

                                                 Days per Year (days / year)

For the example system, the Annual Cost Benefit of Fewer Stops is:
                [8,311 veh * 0.5 stops / veh] * $0.014 / stop * 250 days / yr = $14,544

TOTAL ANNUAL COST BENEFIT

To determine the Total Annual Cost Benefit for the traffic signal system retiming initiative, the Engineer will add all annual
cost benefits from both, travel time and environmental savings.

For the example system, the Total Annual Cost Benefit is:

Annual Cost Benefits from Travel Time Savings:

 Annual Benefit of Reduced Delay -                         $266,293
 Annual Benefit of Fewer Stops -                           $14,533

                                                           Annual Cost Benefits from Travel Time Savings - $280,837

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual                                                                   Cost Benefit Analysis
Assessment                                                                                                                      Page 5
MONITORING
Roles and Responsibilities

Maintenance of the state's inventory of coordinated systems will be balanced between the Division staff and the COST
Section. Division staff are the owners and maintainers of the systems on a daily basis. The COST Section, with support from
private engineering firms, will provide support and guidance on the evaluation and prioritization of the corridors.

DIVISION STAFF

The Division is the primary owner and operator of the coordinated signal systems. They also are the primary contact the
public in regards to the performance of the systems. Each Division provides input into prioritizing the corridors for analysis
and retiming.

      Owners
      Operations of the signal system
      Maintenance of the signal system

                o Includes individual intersection equipment and communications infrastructure
      Input and feedback to coordination and prioritization of corridors
      Documentation in field diaries when system is modified
      Be available during technician's data download in case signal goes into flash mode
      Note any activity in field notebooks every time the system is touched
      Monitoring (pull in section about data collection)
      Handle citizen's complaints

COST SECTION

The COST Section is tasked with facilitating NCDOT's vision within the state of North Carolina. This includes five regions with
326 closed loop systems and 54 time based systems for a total of 2,360 signalized intersections. The following
responsibilities have been defined for the COST Section:

 Current Responsibilities
          o Maintain an inventory of all coordinated signal systems and their coordination plans
          o Oversight and development of coordination plans
          o Coordination for analysis and prioritization of corridor projects
          o Documentation in field diaries when system is modified
          o Oversee the implementation of new approaches to managing coordinated systems (e.g. high resolution
                data, centralized system)
          o Reviewing final coordination plan with Division after implementation
          o Notification to the Division within 24-48 hours of being on site of a coordinated system
          o Coordinate with Division for scheduling data downloads so technicians can be available if signal goes into
                flash mode.
          o Note any activity in field notebooks every time the system is touched
          o Assist field personnel in addressing system timing complaints.

 Future Goals
          o Coordinate traffic signal coordination across jurisdictional boundaries
          o Establish a consistent approach to signal timing for the signal systems in NC
          o Investigate the feasibility of requiring professional engineering seals on coordination plans
          o Implement policies or procedures that minimize undocumented field adjustments
          o Technician training on the implementation of coordination plans
          o Establish consistency for signal system timing practices between all engineers and technicians
          o Improve the integration of coordination plans for emergencies, incidents, special events, and during
                roadwork

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Roles and Responsibilities
Monitoring                                                           Page 1
Roles and Responsibilities

                o Establish metrics and means for communicating the Program Benefits to agency management, policy
                     makers, elected officials, and the public
                            Travel times savings and reports online
                            Project oriented - Report outlining thought process and meeting with division to explain
                            Future ­ communication to the public

PRIVATE ENGINEERING FIRMS (PEFS)

PEFs are tasked with providing additional staff to support the COST Section's workload. PEFs will work closely with the COST
Section while corridors are assigned and projects are established. Once a project is initiated, the PEF will work closely with
the Division with continuous coordination with the COST Section.

      Develop and implement coordination plans
      Work with COST Section and Division to define operational objectives
      Documentation in field diaries when system is modified
      Reviewing final coordination plan with Division after implementation
      Notification to the Division within 24-48 hours of being on site of a coordinated system
      Coordinate with Division for scheduling data downloads so technicians can be available if signal goes into flash

          mode.
      Note any activity in field notebooks every time the system is touched

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Roles and Responsibilities
Monitoring                                                           Page 2
Impacts on a Corridor

The timing of signals along a corridor could be affected by a number of impacts. These impacts can be either quick or span
over a few months to years. Examples of impacts include road work, construction projects, or new development along the
corridor. Each of the impacts affect motorists by changing the traffic patterns from time-to-time and possibly without
warning. There is no timing pattern the morotists can rely on until the project has been completed.

ROADWAY WORK AND TEMPORARY TRAFFIC PATTERNS

Road work typically includes short quick turn-arounds. The work performed includes maintenance activities, temporary
geometric changes, and utility work. The timing should be adjusted to accommodate back flow or changes in available
lanes.

CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS

During construction projects, changes to signal timing could provide temporary relief due to traffic shifts. Also, additional
coordination with roadway or congestion management groups would benefit from notification of how timing may be
impacted or timing plans may need to be revised during traffic pattern changes throughout the construction project.
However, there are some construction projects that are so short in time duration that there may not be any impacts;
otherwise the timing should be adjusted.

NEW DEVELOPMENTS ON A CORRIDOR

New developments can impact the performance on a corridor. Developers can be held accountable for geometric
improvements, including additional turn lanes or the installation of a new traffic signal, to accommodate additional demand
their development may introduce on the corridor. Table 1 provides a summary of the roles and responsibilities of NCDOT
and the Developer.

Additional guidelines will be developed to refine the roles and responsibilities and to integrate the concept of signal system
timing into developer mitigation strategies.

TABLE 1. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

                            Developer                                       NCDOT Divisions

 Develop final coordinated signal system timing       Hold developers accountable for funding signal
 Fund signal system timing work for entire affected       system timing work for the entire corridor affected
                                                          by new developments
     corridor, not only one signal
                                                      If necessary, help developer hire a firm that is
                                                          prequalified by the COST section for timing work, or
                                                          help coordinate for the central office to do the work

                                                      Include coordinated signal system timing for a
                                                          corridor in project cost estimates

                                                      Include traffic engineers in design meetings from the
                                                          beginning of the project

                                                      Include the re-cost of timing signals within the
                                                          Contract, providing additional Division control

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual         Impacts on a Corridor
Monitoring
STRATEGIC PLANNING / LONG TERM TOPICS
Continuous Data Options

The North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) operates and maintains much of the traffic signals in the state
of North Carolina. Currently NCDOT uses travel time runs using GPS devices and Tru-Traffic software to compute and
compare performance measures such as travel time, stops, and delay. The performance should be traceable to operational
objectives. NCDOT has signal performance objectives they are moving to incorporate into the evaluation of corridor's
performance.

It is beneficial for NCDOT to regularly review new options for measuring system performance as newer technologies can
demonstrate their ability to monitor and continuously evaluate a corridor's performance. Assessments of newer technology
options allow the Department to compare the value of the current process against the accuracy, availability, and
applicability of other data collection and analysis approaches. Several states are currently examining some of these
methods for performance measures evaluation including: high resolution controller data (HRCD), Bluetooth, probe data,
and Wi-Fi. NCDOT has performed initial assessments on probe data and Bluetooth.

HIGH RESOLUTION CONTROLLER DATA (HRCD)

"A high-resolution data system for an intersection captures the location (lane), speed, and turn movement of every vehicle
as it approaches and departs an intersection, together with the signal phase. The data is available in real time and archived.
Real-time data is used to implement traffic-responsive signal control, including adaptive signal control. Archived data is used
to obtain intersection, corridor, and network performance, and to evaluate and design better control strategies."1

High Resolution Data in North Carolina

NCDOT is interested in exploring the use of high resolution data for traffic management and will continue to investigate
potential uses and implementations. To fully recognize the benefits of the data, the Department has identified certain
infrastructure investments that will be required.

NCDOT signal equipment currently collects high resolution data, but the current processing and storage of the data
packages and bundles the data into less granular detail. Revising the current data management would require additional
infrastructure for processing and storing larger volumes of data. NCDOT aims to conduct a pilot project that will assess
specific infrastructure solutions required to support high resolution data. Once this equipment is in place, the Department
then can assess how high resolution data can benefit North Carolina.

BLUETOOTH

Bluetooth sensors operate as "active" devices, searching several times per second for a Bluetooth enabled device with
which to pair. The sensors can detect the devices as a vehicle passes by and provide point-to-point travel time information
specific to the device detected. The Bluetooth reader system records a time stamp for each media access control (MAC)
match. The data logs typically have numerous MAC addresses due to the frequent searches and large zone in which a MAC
address may be read.2 Travel times are determined by comparing the MAC addresses recorded at successive sensors along
a roadway and comparing the timestamps at each point. Keep in mind the detection range for Bluetooth sensors is
approximately 328 feet3; if NCDOT decides to use this technology, the devices will need to spaced accordingly in order to
obtain accurate information.

1 High-res traffic data provides planners with the big picture, ITS International, 2015
(http://www.itsinternational.com/categories/detection-monitoring-machine-vision/features/high-res-traffic-data-provides-
planners-with-the-big-picture/)
2 http://utcm.tamu.edu/publications/final_reports/Puckett_09-00-17.pdf
3 http://www.ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop13028/ch2.htm

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Continuous Data Options
Strategic Planning                                                  Page 1
Continuous Data Options

Bluetooth enabled devices are now ubiquitous and include hand held mobile devices, headsets, navigation devices or even
the actual vehicles, as this technology is factory installed in more vehicles. For this reason, the data collection via Bluetooth
is more easily implementable and can provide an agency with a non-intrusive alternative.

Bluetooth in North Carolina

Bluetooth data collection method is new for NCDOT. Currently, NCDOT does not own any Bluetooth reader devices so the
cost of applying this methodology could potentially be higher. Benefits of using Bluetooth for a corridor include access to a
larger quantity of data points and the data collection effort is less labor intensive than performing travel time runs. NCDOT
has completed their first pilot study to assess the capabilities and potential applicability on other corridors.

3RD PARTY PROBE DATA

Performance measures using vehicle probe data is another rapidly developing technology. This data is collected by third
party vendors that process and package the data for specific roadway links. Until recently, probe data was primarily used
for freeways and was not considered to be accurate or reliable data source for arterial performance. Improvements in the
technology include an increase in the capture rate of probe data and an ability to package the data into smaller roadway
segments. These advances are making the use of probe data a more feasible alternative for evaluating arterial performance.

NCDOT's Closed Loop System Retiming projects for 2017 all will have probe data collected for them. These additional data
points will provide the ability to compare before and after conditions as measured by both the travel time runs and the
available probe data.

Probe Data in North Carolina

Probe data collection for designing, assessing, or monitoring a corridor has not been done in NC. NCDOT is beginning to
look at ways to incorporate this type of data collection into their projects. Recently, the NCDOT Safety Unit performed a
comparison of probe data received from NCDOT's third-party vendor and travel time runs along three specific corridors.
Based on this analysis, NCDOT determined that the probe data demonstrated an acceptable level of accuracy.

WI-FI

Wi-Fi data collection has a very similar protocol to Bluetooth data collection, and in some cases, work with Bluetooth versus
independently.

Wi-Fi sensors operate in "passive" mode, waiting for mobile devices to search for wi-fi networks and collecting the device's
MAC address in the process. The rate at which mobile devices search for wi-fi networks varies based on the manufacturer,
but is roughly every 30 seconds, providing more data points. Depending on the range of the wi-fi sensor and the speed of a
vehicle, it is possible that a vehicle could pass in and out of the range of the sensor without being recorded.

One benefit of Wi-Fi data collection over Bluetooth data collection is that nearly all vehicles will contain one or more wi-fi
enabled devices and users are more likely to leave wi-fi "on" than to leave Bluetooth in "discoverable" mode, so the
number of vehicles detected tends to be much higher using Wi-Fi than Bluetooth.

Wi-Fi in North Carolina

Like Bluetooth, NCDOT does not use Wi-Fi for data collection currently. There would be a huge learning curve within the
Department. Also, NCDOT does not own any Wi-Fi devices that could be placed along the corridor, which could potentially
increase the cost of using this method.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Continuous Data Options
Strategic Planning                                                  Page 2
Continuous Data Options

DEDICATED SHORT RANGE COMMUNICATIONS (DSRC)

Connected vehicle technology uses dedicated short range communication (DSRC) to communicate from vehicle-to-vehicle
(V2V) or vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I). This technology still is in its infancy, however there are vast changes every day
regarding the technology. DSRC could be capable of transmissions up to 3280 feet;4 however, DSRC communication needs
line-of-sight to support accurate data transfers.

The USDOT's plan is requesting to have the DSRC transceiver ID to randomly reassign every five-minutes to protect privacy.
To locate matching ID's within a corridor, a vehicle would have to pass by at least two devices within this five-minute span.
To mitigate this five-minute window challenge, devices would need to be spaced closer together.

It is theorized that "...if the average travel time between transceivers is 3 minutes, a match rate of about 40 percent could
be expected. Another theory is "if the system is designed to base calculations on vehicles'' spot speed measurement
instead of segment travel times", it could provide a near 100 percent detection rate.12 As the penetration rate of DSRC
technology improves, this technology could provide the largest sample size for calculating performance measures with a
high level of accuracy.

4 http://www.ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/fhwahop13028/ch2.htm  Continuous Data Options
                                                                                       Page 3
NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual
Strategic Planning
Continuous Data Options

SYSTEM DETECTORS FOR ANNUAL PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS

Extraction of system detector data can be used to evaluate the performance of corridor. NCDOT does not have system
detectors on all corridors, but they can still provide valuable data where they are in place. Figure 1 provides the process for
using system detector data to evaluate the performance of a corridor.
If this system is prone to
experience a variation in
volumes due to seasonal
demands, the data set should
be extracted and saved to the
system file more frequently.
Similarly, if traffic volumes
fluctuate between the
weekdays and weekend
traffic demands, data
extraction also can be
considered. The frequency
and timing for the data
collection should be managed
in response to the
performance characteristics
of the corridor.

                                     FIGURE 1. USE OF SYSTEM DETECTORS FOR ANALYSIS

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Continuous Data Options
Strategic Planning                                                  Page 4
Historical Documentation

In 2009, NCDOT launched a program to optimize the timing of signal systems in the state every three years. To date, many
of the signal systems have been optimized at least twice since the start of the program. "Before and after" data has been
collected each time the systems are re-timed to determine the overall travel time savings (benefit) of the optimization
effort. The NCDOT COST group maintains a database of signal systems with system timing histories and signals by inventory
ID number. Using this database NCDOT can determine when a system was last timed, who timed it, the number of signals,
and the communication type.

The COST Section is partnering with the Safety Unit to perform some analysis using existing historical data for corridors that
have been retimed multiple times. This spreadsheet is forming the foundation for how historical data can be more
consistently maintained to provide both the history of a specific corridor and the overall recognized benefits of the
corridors that have been retimed statewide.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Historical Documentation
Strategic Planning
Integrated Corridor Management (ICM)

Integrated Corridor Management (ICM) combines two fundamental concepts: active management and integration. Active
management involves monitoring and assessing the performance of the system and dynamically implementing actions in
response to fluctuations in demand. In an ICM corridor, all individual facilities must be actively managed so that operational
approaches can be altered in real-time in response to an event anywhere on the system.

Integration requires actively managing assets in a unified way so that actions can be taken to benefit the corridor as a
whole, not just a particular piece of it. Integration occurs along three dimensions:

      Institutional Integration ­ Involves coordination and collaboration between various agencies and jurisdictions (i.e.,
          transportation network owners) in support of ICM, including the distribution of specific operational responsibilities
          and the sharing of control functions in a manner that transcends institutional boundaries.

      Operational Integration ­ Involves the implementation of multi-agency transportation management strategies,
          often in real-time, that promote information sharing and coordinated operations across the various transportation
          networks in the corridor and facilitate management of the total capacity and demand of the corridor.

      Technical Integration ­ Provides the means (e.g., communication links between agencies, system interfaces, and
          the associated standards) by which information, system operations, and control functions can be effectively shared
          and distributed among networks and their respective transportation management systems, and by which the
          impacts of operational decisions can be immediately viewed and evaluated by the affected agencies. Cannot be
          accomplished without institutional and operational integration.

NC has approached ICM in 2 different ways to date. The Central Office System Timing (COST) group has led the
development of a rural ICM project on the I-40 and I-26 corridors in the Asheville area. Signal Systems were timed, re-
timed, and expanded to incorporate a detour for an incident on I-26 west. This concept was coordinated with both Division
13 and 14 and implemented remotely in real time.

The second ICM project is under development. Division 10 and 12 are committed to documenting ICM processes using the
I-85 corridor in Gaston and Mecklenburg Counties as an example. This project could be used a pilot project and details
applied to other ICM projects around the State. Freeway and arterial integration is a statewide goal and will be addressed
along the I-85 / US 74 corridor for this project ­ the first of its kind in North Carolina. The I-85 study area will begin east of
Billy Graham Parkway (Exit 33) and extend west of US 74 (Exit 10).

Next steps are to develop ICM triggers, response plans, performance measures, DMS sign locations, SOPs, signal timing
diversion plans, and data collection to support before/after assessment.

INTEGRATED CORRIDOR MANAGEMENT (ICM) IN THE METROLINA REGION

The NCDOT has begun the process of developing an Integrated Corridor Management (ICM) plan for a section of I-85 in
Mecklenburg and Gaston Counties, NC. The goal of the ICM plan is to actively manage the transportation corridor to reduce
congestion, and improve network performance and reliability. A diverse stakeholder group is meeting to work through the
details of TIM, signal system timing, additional ITS infrastructure and other challenges.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Integrated Corridor Management (ICM)
Strategic Planning
Diverging Diamond Interchange (DDI)

Timing signals at or near a diverging diamond interchange (DDI) presents some unique challenges. The traffic signals at the
DDI crossovers do not have a "minor" movement but rather alternate between the two directions of mainline traffic.
Because of this, it can be difficult to provide two-way progression through the interchange. Depending on the design of the
signals at the DDI, the two intersections may run on one controller or on two separate controllers. If the signals operate on
a single controller, a ring offset may be used to define the relationship between the intersection. If two controllers are
used, this relationship is defined with an offset just as it would be with traditional timing. In that case, it is also important to
note which direction serves as the offset reference point. Currently, NCDOT uses two controllers for most DDI timing
projects. NCDOT is deploying DDI's more frequently, but the Department does not have a current standard practice related
to 1 versus 2 controllers.

Another unique characteristic of signal system timing within a DDI is related to the clearance intervals. The crossover
intersections tend to be very compact, creating a short distance for a vehicle to travel to clear the opposing through
movement. However, the distance between the crossover and the downstream left or right turn movements tends to be
much longer. When these movements are signalized, the additional time to clear these movements must be accounted for
in the signal design. One way to account for this distance is to provide a very long red clearance interval. However, this can
result in a loss of efficiency for the signal. Another option to design clearance intervals at the DDI crossover intersections is
to provide an overlap to begin the opposing through after a short red interval but hold the conflicting left or right turn
movement from the ramp for an additional interval. Currently, NCDOT has not adopted a standard, but commonly uses a
dummy phase to hold conflicting movement. The signal system timing plans must properly account for this time.

One of the key factors in developing appropriate timing plans at DDI signals is the travel time between the crossover
signals. This time may be difficult to determine prior to construction of the DDI because speeds on the bridge tend to be
much lower than the design speed due to the curvature of the road. Once the average travel time between the crossovers
is determined, setting the cycle length as a multiple of this time has been found to be a useful rule of thumb for these
signals.

Because the DDI crossovers tend to be very closely spaced, keeping the space between the signals clear is a key objective
when developing the timing plans. With this in mind, and because DDI signals tend to operate with two or three phases, a
low cycle length is generally the best option. Sometimes running the DDI signals at half of the cycle length of other signals
on a corridor will enable corridor progression while also optimizing the DDI operations. In some cases, it is also possible to
run one crossover signal at half of the cycle length of the other to progress both a left turn movement from a ramp as well
as a through movement along the mainline at the downstream crossover.

Because roadway geometry and vehicle speeds are so critical to developing signal system timing plans at a DDI,
microsimulation modeling of a signal system timing plan prior to implementation could be a very helpful assessment
approach for NCDOT to consider. It currently is not NCDOT's practice to use microsimulation, but the Department does
understand the value of this assessment tool for corridors that include a DDI.

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Diverging Diamond Interchange (DDI)
Strategic Planning
Emissons Data

Collecting and interpreting emissions data to assess signal systems timing work is a long-term objective of NCDOT.
Currently, this data is not used for specific analysis of signal timing performance, but the Department has identified
emissions data as future performance metric for signal system timing.
Establishing a standard process for equating emissions to dollars will allow NCDOT to analyze the return-on-investment
calculation of implementing signal system timing with regard to air quality. NCDOT has conducted this analysis on a few
projects, but guidelines for the data analysis have not yet been adopted.

POTENTIAL APPLICATIONS OF EMISSIONS DATA

Environmental benefits can be predicted using the SimTraffic simulation software for a "before" and "after" analysis, as
shown in the sample outputs in Figure 1.

FIGURE 1. SAMPLE SIMTRAFFIC "BEFORE" AND "AFTER" RESULTS
Calculations for the assessment of environmental impacts could include:

      Annual Cost Benefit of Reduced HC Emissions
      Annual Cost Benefit of Reduced CO Emissions
      Annual Cost Benefit of Reduced NOx Emissions
      Annual Cost Benefit of Reduced Fuel Usage

NCDOT Signal System Timing Philosophy Manual  Emissions Data
Strategic Planning
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
                    NCDOT Central Office System Timing (COST) Section

                               Scope of Services

              Retiming of Existing Closed Loop Signals FY 2017

For each of the Projects listed in the Attachment, the Firm shall provide professional engineering
services necessary for evaluating the current operation of the Existing Closed Loop Signal
Systems (CLS) to develop improved signal timing plans, implement and fine-tune the new plans,
and evaluate the final operational benefits associated with work performed on the project. The
signal timing plans shall be designed to address all possible traffic needs along the study
corridor, including but not limited to:

      Weekday peak/non-peak traffic periods (i.e. AM, PM, Noon, Off-Peak, etc.);
      School/Universities start/end and/or class change peak traffic periods;
      Seasonal traffic patterns;
      Pre-scheduled holiday(s) traffic patterns;
      Incident management traffic patterns (i.e. detour routes, hurricane evacuations, etc.); and
      Other special events traffic patterns.

All work performed under this proposal will be performed under the direct charge of a North
Carolina licensed Professional Engineer.

Task 1: Provide Cost Estimate

Submit a detailed Cost Estimate to be reviewed and approved by State Traffic Engineer's Staff
Engineer, Dr. Joseph Hummer. Dr. Hummer will advise if negotiations are needed between the
Firm and the COST Section. If necessary, the Firm may need to revise the cost estimate and
resubmit to Dr. Hummer after negotiations. Once COST Section and Dr. Hummer both approve
the Cost Estimate, Dr. Hummer will issue a Notice to Proceed (NTP). The Firm will not be
allowed to begin re-timing effort until the date of the NTP.

Prior to completing a cost estimate, the Firm shall discuss with the Division to ascertain their
specific timing plan needs. Any information collected from the Division must be provided to the
COST Reviewing Engineer prior to submitting a cost estimate. After NTP, minor adjustments to
the number of timing plans may be made without affecting the scope, schedule and budget for
the projects.

Task 2: Kick Off Meeting

The Firm and the COST Section reviewing Engineer shall meet with Division and /or
Municipality and Regional Traffic Engineer's representatives to discuss the scope of the projects
in detail, and any additional pertinent information/recommendations before developing new
timing plans.
The Firm is required to provide the Division prior notification anytime field work is being
performed on the project.

                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                  SOW FY 2017 Signal Retiming Projects

Task 3: Field Data Collection

The Firm shall:
 Provide 13-hour turning movement/directional counts, for the total number of locations

    identified as critical intersections as agreed upon by the COST Section and/or Division.
    NOTE: Existing count data may be used if count data is 3 years old or less and includes a
    3% per year adjustment factor. Existing count data may be found at:
    https://connect.ncdot.gov/resources/safety/Pages/Volume-Class.aspx
    http://www.ncdot.org/doh/preconstruct/traffic/safety/TSI/turning.html
 Field review signalized locations to verify:
    o Existing geometrics and signal phasing
    o Distance and speed limits between intersections
    o All equipment status is in necessary working order: detectors, communication,

         controllers, etc.
    o Verify programming matches the most recent traffic signal Plan of Record (POR) and

         note discrepancies
         NOTE: Revisions to existing traffic signal POR beyond field notes and red-lining of the
         plans are not included in this scope of services. However, any
         recommendations/suggestions for improvements to traffic safety and efficiency are
         requested to be included in the Final Report.
 Note issues that will need to be addressed prior to the implementation and report these issues
    to the Division. Inform the Regional Traffic Engineer (RTE) of any critical safety issues
    observed in the field. Issues that should be reported to the Division may be:
    o loops not detecting vehicles
    o signal heads rotated or displays out
    o communication issues with local controllers
    o controller screen blank
    o pedestrian push buttons that don't work
    o etc.

Task 4: Evaluation of Existing Traffic Signal System Operations

The Firm shall:
 Create a Translink32 Database so that the Master asset designation is listed in standard order

    of Master Asset Number (preceded by 2 digit Division number), System Name @ Division,
    County, City (ex: MS ­ 0310312 ­ US 17 (Ocean Hwy) @ Division 3, Brunswick Co,
    Leland)
 Upload the existing System data from the field
 Discuss operational objectives with the Division
 Perform "Before Runs" using Tru-Traffic software in accordance with the Standard Practice
    for Travel Time Runs for Evaluation of Signal Timing Plans.
 Perform work in accordance with recognized professional engineering practices

                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                  SOW FY 2017 Signal Retiming Projects

    NOTE: any existing files and/or information provided by the Department (including, but not
    limited to: signal plans, SYNCHRO files, timing schedules, Tru-Traffic files, etc.) shall be
    checked for accuracy by the Firm.

Task 4A: Data Review with Division 10 (Division 10 Projects Only)

The Firm shall meet with the Division after data collection and traffic operations review but prior
to beginning any signal timing design to discuss and establish consensus on design approach.

Task 5: Develop Traffic Signal System Timing Plans

The Firm shall:
 Ensure intersection geometric and phasing data in Tru-Traffic and SYNCHRO 9.0 match.
 Develop SYNCHRO network model for existing conditions. Interpolation of traffic counts is

    acceptable for non-critical intersections when count data is not available.
 Develop time-of-day schedules
 Update/develop Translink32 database
 Update/develop Master Graphics:

    o All new graphics should use photogrammetry and/or signal design plans as a minimum
         standard

    o Internal Translink32 default graphics will not be acceptable
    o All graphics shall have a resolution of 1280 pixel x 768 pixel in order for entire graphics

         screen to be viewed on a laptop without requiring scrolling
    o Intersections and detectors shall be labeled
 Ensure all System Detectors are assigned and the detector data is logging in field
 Coordinate the number of timing plans with the Division and COST Section.

Task 6: Preliminary Submittal

The Firm shall:
 Submit electronic preliminary timing plan report and supporting documentation to the COST

    Reviewing Engineer for review, using the DOT File Transfer System (FTS), including:
    o TransLink32 Databases
    o Synchro
    o Tru-Traffic
    o Traffic Counts
 Use the following report format:

    Section 1 - Executive Summary
    Section 2 - Study Area

         o Intersections and a map
         o Existing signal system zones
         o Special signal timing requirements (pedestrian phases, FYAs, railroad preemption,

             etc.)

                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                  SOW FY 2017 Signal Retiming Projects

         o Facility Type
         o Purpose of Route
    Section 3 - Turning Movement Counts
         o Map and location of existing and new counts
         o Methodology of developing volumes for intersections without turning movement

             counts
         o Identify Traffic Flow Characteristics
         o Table showing counts, who did them, date and peak periods counted
    Section 4 - Existing Timing Plans
         o Existing TOD Schedule
         o Discrepancies between Translink32 & signal plans
         o Discrepancies between signal plan and current conditions
         o Day and time of "Before" travel time runs
         o Refer back to Translink32 database
    Section 5 ­ Field Observations of Corridor
         o Observations from "Before" travel time runs ­ including any issues related to

             deficiencies/safety issues with geometrics/pavement marking/signal heads, etc.
         o Summary of Division concerns
         o Citizen complaints
    Section 6 - Proposed Timing Plans
         o Identify Performance Measures
         o Define Prioritization
         o Define Operational Objectives
         o Changes to Zones
         o Identify Critical Intersections
         o Cycle lengths for each plan
         o Special timing (half cycle, uncoordinated intersections, lead/lag, etc.)
     Section 7 - Proposed TOD/DOW Schedule
     Section 8 - Proposed Implementation Schedule
     Section 9 - Appendices
         o Traffic routing methodology and results (If explanation is needed)
         o Additional information
         o Hard Copies (if requested)
 Allow three (3) weeks for review, comments, and preliminary approval process to be
    completed by the COST Section
 Wait to implement until all review comments have been addressed and the preliminary
    submittals have been approved by the COST Section
 Receive initial project ratings after preliminary review approval is completed.

Task 7: Field Implementation & Fine-Tuning of New Timing Plans

The Firm shall:
 Implement timing plans in accordance with the COST Section's requirements
 Ensure all TOD scheduled events are operational in both the Master and local controller(s)
 Observe new traffic operations at the intersections and along corridors and drive the system

    with Tru-Traffic synced with the system time

                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                  SOW FY 2017 Signal Retiming Projects

 Fine-tune traffic as necessary. (For estimating purposes, on complex projects this task may
    be limited to an agreed upon maximum number of days.)

Task 8: Evaluation of Traffic Signal System Operations

The Firm shall:
 Perform "After Runs" using Tru-Traffic software in accordance with the Standard Practice

    for Travel Time Runs for Evaluation of Signal Timing Plans.

Task 9: Final Submittal & Final Report

The Firm shall:
 Submit Final Report, timing plans, and all supporting documentation to the COST Reviewing

    Engineer a minimum of one (1) month in advance of the deadline of the project to provide
    adequate time for to review, evaluate, and approve (see Schedule below).
    o One (1) electronic copy to COST Reviewing Engineer
    o One (1) electronic copy to the Division
    o All SYNCHRO, Tru-Traffic Reports and data, Translink32 database files (cleaning up the

         schedule, removing unused timing plans, etc.), traffic counts, and any other pertinent
         information.
 Prepare a Final Report using the following format:

    Section 1 - Executive Summary
    Section 2 - Study Area

         o Intersections and a Map
         o Final signal system zones with any changes
         o Special signal timing requirements (noteworthy changes or special programing to

             note for future)
    Section 3 - Turning Movement Counts

         o Summary and refer back to Preliminary submittal
    Section 4 - Implemented Timing Plans

         o Date Implemented
         o Cycle lengths for each plan
         o Special programming changed because of field conditions
    Section 5 - Implemented TOD/DOW Schedule
    Section 6 - Travel Time Run Comparison
         o Dates and Times of "Before" and "After" runs
         o Tables summarizing "Before" and "After" run results
    Section 7 - Recommendations
         o Separate the signal operations comments from the remaining comments
         o Classify recommendations by their added benefit to operation or safety (i.e. high,

             medium, or low)
    Section 8 - Appendices

         o Additional information
         o Hard Copies (if requested)

                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                  SOW FY 2017 Signal Retiming Projects

 Notify COST Section if System re-timing effort does not provide an improvement/benefit to
    the current System operations. COST Section, Division, and Firm will meet to discuss result
    and agree on further actions and/or recommendations. If agreement between COST Section
    and Firm is that improvement/benefit to the System operations cannot be accomplished
    through the System re-timing effort then written justification should be included in the Final
    Report.

 Email Section 7 - Recommendations to Jennifer Portanova once the Final Report has been
    accepted by the COST Reviewing Engineer.

 Receive final project ratings after Final Report and accompanying documents are received
    and approved.

Task 10: Meet with Division Personnel

The Firm shall meet with Division and Regional Traffic Engineer's personnel for up to 1/2
business days to review and explain all work done.

Work Standards

The Firm will prepare plans in accordance with current edition of the following, if applicable:
 Traffic Systems Operations' Project Special Provisions - (Special Provisions for the

    Preparation of Coordinated Traffic Signal System Timing Plans ­ Version 2011.1)
 NCDOT Traffic Management and Signal Systems Unit Design Manual
 The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 2003 Edition.
 North Carolina Supplement to the MUTCD
 Plan preparation and CADD conventions, customary practices and formats of the NCDOT

    ITS and Signals Unit

The Firm shall be responsible for responding to any operational issues related to the final signal
timing plans for up to one (1) month after final signal timing plans have been reviewed and
approved without additional cost to the Department.

Invoices

The Firm shall:
 Include Summary of Progress and a Percent Completion on all Invoice submittals
 Expect remittance of the Final Invoice after the Post implementation Observation Period has

    ended.
 Submit invoices to Dr. Hummer for payment.

                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                  SOW FY 2017 Signal Retiming Projects

Schedule
The Firm shall commence work in conjunction with receiving the Notice to Proceed (NTP) from
the Dr. Hummer and complete project by September 30, 2017 or sooner.
Reasonable extensions of time for unforeseen delays may be allowed as agreed to by mutual
consent by and between the Firm and the COST Section.
Reference

Regional Traffic Engineers - https://apps.ncdot.gov/dot/directory/authenticated/UnitPage.aspx?id=9685
Traffic Count Information
https://connect.ncdot.gov/resources/safety/TrafficSafetyResources/Price%20List%20-%202015-2018.pdf
https://connect.ncdot.gov/resources/safety/Pages/Traffic-Data.aspx

Version 2017.1

                                                                                                                               7
